



Network Working Group                                           D. Petta
Internet-Draft                                       Drummond Group, LLC
Intended status: Informational                           28 January 2026
Expires: 1 August 2026


                    AS2 Specification Modernization
                     draft-petta-rfc4130bis-latest

Abstract

   This document provides an applicability statement (RFC 2026,
   Section 3.2) describing how to securely exchange structured business
   data over HTTP.  Structured business data may be XML; Electronic Data
   Interchange (EDI) in either the American National Standards Committee
   (ANSI) X12 format or the UN Electronic Data Interchange for
   Administration, Commerce, and Transport (UN/EDIFACT) format; or other
   structured data formats.  The data is packaged using standard MIME
   structures.  Authentication and data confidentiality are obtained by
   using Cryptographic Message Syntax with S/MIME security body parts
   (see Section 10.1).  Authenticated acknowledgements make use of
   multipart/signed Message Disposition Notification (MDN) responses to
   the original HTTP message.  This applicability statement is
   informally referred to as "AS2" because it is the second
   applicability statement, produced after "AS1" (RFC 3335).  This
   document obsoletes RFC 4130 and stands on its own without reference
   to AS1 or SMTP, except where required for IANA registry updates.

   This document also updates IANA registries originally created by RFC
   3335 and RFC 4130.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://DrummondGroup.github.io/draft-petta-rfc4130bis/draft-petta-
   rfc4130bis.html.  Status information for this document may be found
   at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-petta-rfc4130bis/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/DrummondGroup/draft-petta-rfc4130bis.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 1 August 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Applicable RFCs
     1.2.  Backward Compatibility and Interoperability
     1.3.  Rationale
     1.4.  Terms
   2.  Overview
     2.1.  Overall Operation
     2.2.  Purpose of a Security Guideline for MIME EDI
     2.3.  Definitions
       2.3.1.  The Secure Transmission Loop
       2.3.2.  Definition of Receipts
     2.4.  Assumptions
       2.4.1.  EDI/EC Process Assumptions
       2.4.2.  Flexibility Assumptions
   3.  Referenced RFCs and Their Contributions
     3.1.  RFC 2616 HTTP v1.1 RFC2616
     3.2.  RFC 1847 MIME Security Multiparts RFC1847
     3.3.  RFC 3462 Multipart/Report RFC3462
     3.4.  RFC 1767 EDI Content RFC1767
     3.5.  RFC 2045, 2046, and 2049 MIME RFC2045, RFC2046, and RFC2049
     3.6.  RFC 3798 Message Disposition Notification RFC3798
     3.7.  RFC 3851 and 3852 S/MIME Version 3.1 Message Specifications
           and Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) RFC3851 / RFC3852
     3.8.  RFC 3023 XML Media Types RFC3023
     3.9.  RFC 3274 Compressed Data Content Type for Cryptographic
           Message Syntax (CMS) RFC3274
   4.  Structure of an AS2 Message
     4.1.  Introduction
     4.2.  Structure of an Internet EDI MIME Message
   5.  HTTP Considerations
     5.1.  Sending EDI in HTTP POST Requests
     5.2.  Unused MIME Headers and Operations
       5.2.1.  Content-Transfer-Encoding Not Used in HTTP Transport
       5.2.2.  Message Bodies
     5.3.  Modification of MIME or Other Headers or Parameters Used
       5.3.1.  Content-Length
       5.3.2.  Final Recipient and Original Recipient
       5.3.3.  Message-Id and Original-Message-Id
       5.3.4.  Host Header
     5.4.  HTTP Response Status Codes
     5.5.  HTTP Error Recovery and Reliability
   6.  Additional AS2-Specific HTTP Headers
     6.1.  AS2 Version Header
     6.2.  AS2 Product header
     6.3.  AS2 System Identifiers
   7.  Algorithm Requirements
     7.1.  Hash Algorithms
     7.2.  Encryption Algorithms
   8.  Structure and Processing of an MDN Message
     8.1.  Introduction
     8.2.  Synchronous and Asynchronous MDNs
     8.3.  Requesting a Signed Receipt
       8.3.1.  Signed Receipt Considerations
     8.4.  MDN Format and Values
       8.4.1.  AS2-MDN General Formats
       8.4.2.  AS2-MDN Construction
       8.4.3.  AS2-MDN Fields
       8.4.4.  AS2-MDN Field Requirements
       8.4.5.  Additional AS2-MDN Programming Notes
     8.5.  Disposition Mode, Type, and Modifier
       8.5.1.  Disposition Mode Overview
       8.5.2.  Successful Processing Status Indication
       8.5.3.  Unsuccessful Processed Content
       8.5.4.  Unsuccessful Non-Content Processing
       8.5.5.  Processing Warnings
       8.5.6.  Backward Compatibility with Disposition Type, Modifier,
               and Extension
     8.6.  Receipt Reply Considerations in an HTTP POST
   9.  Public Key Certificate Handling
     9.1.  Certificate Roles and Requirements
     9.2.  Certificate Exchange and Renewal
     9.3.  Operational Guidance
   10. Security Considerations
     10.1.  HTTPS and TLS Requirements
     10.2.  TLS Server Certificates
     10.3.  NRR Cautions
     10.4.  Replay Remark
   11. IANA Considerations
     11.1.  Registration
       11.1.1.  Disposition Modifier 'warning'
   12. Acknowledgments
   13. References
     13.1.  Normative References
     13.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Message Examples
     A.1.  Signed Message Requesting a Signed, Synchronous Receipt
     A.2.  MDN for Message in A.1, Above
     A.3.  Signed, Encrypted Message Requesting a Signed, Asynchronous
           Receipt
     A.4.  Asynchronous MDN for Message in A.3, Above
   Appendix B.  Legacy Interoperability (Non-Normative)
   Appendix C.  Change Log (Non-Normative)
     C.1.  General
     C.2.  Changes affecting Section 1.2 - Backward Compatibility and
            Interoperability
     C.3.  Changes affecting Section 5.1 - AS2-Version Header
     C.4.  Changes affecting Section 5.3.3 — Message-Id and
            Original-Message-Id
     C.5.  Changes affecting Sections 5.4 and 5.5 — Reliability and
            Restart
     C.6.  Changes affecting Section 6 — Additional AS2-Specific HTTP
            Headers
     C.7.  Changes affecting Section 7 - Algorithm Requirements
     C.8.  Changes affecting Section 8 - MDN Processing
     C.9.  Changes affecting Section 9 — Public Key Certificate
            Handling
     C.10. Changes affecting Section 10 - Security Considerations
     C.11. Changes affecting Section 11 - IANA Considerations
     C.12. Appendices
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   This document is a revision ("bis") of RFC 4130, which defined the
   Applicability Statement 2 (AS2) protocol for secure and reliable
   transport of business data over HTTP.  It obsoletes RFC 4130.  The
   purpose of this revision is to modernize the specification, clarify
   ambiguities, and incorporate implementation experience gathered since
   the publication of RFC 4130.  Subsequent versions of this draft will
   refine these updates based on discussion and consensus in the IETF
   community.  This revision also adheres to the principle of backward
   compatibility.  Implementations conformant with RFC 4130 remain valid
   under this specification, and no breaking changes are introduced.  In
   addition, this document updates existing IANA registrations from RFC
   3335 and RFC 4130.  The specific IANA actions are described in
   Section 11.

   Note to readers: Some contributors have suggested that this work
   could eventually be split into two documents: a minimal RFC4130bis
   for errata and clarifications, and a separate AS2 v2 specification
   with a clean modern baseline.  This document currently attempts to
   balance both objectives within a single text, but further discussion
   may refine the scope.

1.1.  Applicable RFCs

   Previous work on Internet EDI focused on specifying MIME content
   types for EDI data [RFC1767].  This document expands on RFC 1767 to
   specify a comprehensive set of data security features, specifically
   data confidentiality, data integrity/authenticity, non-repudiation of
   origin, and non-repudiation of receipt over HTTP.  This document
   recognizes contemporary RFCs and avoids re-inventing mechanisms
   wherever possible.  Although this document focuses on EDI data, any
   other data types describable in a MIME format are also supported.

   Internet MIME-based EDI can be accomplished by using and complying
   with the following RFCs:

  o  RFC 2616 Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (baseline: HTTP/1.1)
  o  RFC 1767 EDI Content Type
  o  RFC 3023 XML Media Types
  o  RFC 1847 Security Multiparts for MIME
  o  RFC 3462 Multipart/Report
  o  RFC 2045 to 2049 MIME RFCs
  o  RFC 8098 Message Disposition Notification (updates RFC 3798)
  o  RFC 3851, 3852 S/MIME v3.1 Specification
  o  RFC 8551 S/MIME v4.0 (updated algorithm requirements including AES,
     AES-GCM, AES-CCM)

   Our intent here is to define clearly and precisely how these are used
   together, and what is required by user agents to be compliant with
   this document.  Implementers should note that HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 MAY
   be used as transports, but are not required for interoperability.

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP
   14 [RFC2119] and [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

1.2.  Backward Compatibility and Interoperability

   A central design principle of this specification is "backward
   compatibility" with RFC 4130 and with the underlying RFCs it
   references.  This specification does not redefine or override
   backward-compatibility rules established in those RFCs.
   Implementations MUST rely on the mechanisms provided in underlying
   standards.

   Consistent with the Robustness Principle ("be conservative in what
   you send and liberal in what you receive"), this document clarifies
   requirements and aligns terminology but does not introduce breaking
   changes.  Implementations that conformed to RFC 4130 remain
   conformant to this specification.  Any deviations are limited to
   clarifications intended to improve interoperability.

   Implementations MAY interoperate using S/MIME Version 3.1 RFC3851
   [RFC3852] with legacy trading partners, but conformant
   implementations MUST also support S/MIME Version 4.0 [RFC8551] to
   meet the algorithm requirements of this specification and ensure
   forward compatibility.  These provisions ensure smooth migration for
   existing deployments while establishing RFC 8551 as the baseline for
   new implementations.

   This specification defines requirements for modern AS2 deployments
   using contemporary cryptographic algorithms.  It does not redefine or
   extend the use of weak algorithms such as 3DES or SHA-1.  When both
   partners support this version of AS2, only modern algorithms are in
   scope.

   When interoperability with RFC 4130 systems is required, implementers
   SHOULD apply the clarifications provided in Appendix B (Legacy
   Interoperability).  Appendix B is non-normative and does not alter
   the algorithm requirements defined in Section 7, but records expected
   behavior when communicating with legacy systems.

1.3.  Rationale

   The updates in this specification reflect community consensus to:

 o  Preserve backward compatibility with RFC 4130 and the underlying
    RFCs it references.
 o  Provide explicit guidance on which protocol versions form the
    interoperability baseline for certification and testing.
 o  Incorporate de facto updates already widely deployed (e.g., RFC 8098
    for MDNs, migration from SHA-1 to SHA-2 wherever possible).
 o  Document stronger security requirements while allowing
    backward-compatible fallback to enable phased adoption.
 o  Avoid unnecessary disruption by permitting, but not requiring,
    newer transport features such as HTTP/2, and by clarifying rather
    than redefining MDN behavior.

   This approach reduces ambiguity, simplifies certification, and
   ensures interoperability across implementations.

1.4.  Terms

      AS2:     Applicability Statement 2 (this document) and [RFC4130]; see RFC 2026
               [RFC2026], Section 3.2

      EDI:     Electronic Data Interchange

      EC:      Electronic Commerce (often referred to as Business to Business, B2B).

      B2B:     Business to Business

      Receipt: The functional message that is sent from a receiver to a
               sender to acknowledge that an EDI/EC interchange has been
               received. This message may be either synchronous or asynchronous
               in nature.

      Signed Receipt: A receipt with a digital signature.

      Synchronous Receipt: A receipt returned to the sender over the same
               TCP/IP connection as the sender's original message.

      Asynchronous Receipt: A receipt returned to the sender over a different
               TCP/IP connection than the sender's original message.

      Message Disposition Notification (MDN): The Internet messaging format
               used to convey a receipt. This term is used interchangeably
               with receipt. An MDN is a receipt.

      Non-repudiation of receipt (NRR): A "legal event" that occurs when
               the original sender of an signed EDI/EC interchange has
               verified the signed receipt coming back from the receiver.
               The receipt contains data identifying the original message
               for which it is a receipt, including the message-ID and a
               cryptographic hash (MIC). The original sender must retain
               suitable records providing evidence concerning the message
               content, its message-ID, and its hash value. The original
               sender verifies that the retained hash value is the same as
               the digest of the original message, as reported in the
               signed receipt. NRR is not considered a technical message,
               but instead is thought of as an outcome of possessing
               relevant evidence.

      S/MIME:  A format and protocol for adding cryptographic signature
               and/or encryption services to Internet MIME messages.

      Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS): An encapsulation syntax used to
               digitally sign, digest, authenticate, or encrypt arbitrary
               messages.

      SHA-1:   A secure, one-way hash algorithm used in conjunction with
               digital signature. This algorithm is retained for backward
               compatibility but is deprecated in this specification.
               Implementations MUST support SHA-256 or stronger where possible,
               and SHOULD prefer these algorithms in production environments
               unless legacy partners cannot yet migrate to SHA-256 or stronger.

      MD5:     A secure, one-way hash algorithm used in conjunction with
               digital signature. This algorithm is obsolete and MUST NOT be generated
               by conformant implementations.

      MIC:     The Message Integrity Check (MIC) is a cryptographic method used
               to verify that a message has not been altered or tampered with during
               transmission or storage, ensuring the data is trustworthy and complete.
               It works by generating a unique hash value from the message's contents,
               which is then transmitted with the message. The recipient recalculates
               the hash on the received message and compares it to the provided MIC;
               if they don't match, the message is discarded, indicating it was modified.

      User Agent (UA): The application that handles and processes the AS2 request.

2.  Overview

2.1.  Overall Operation

   An HTTP POST operation [RFC2616] is used to send appropriately
   packaged EDI, XML, or other business data.  The Request-URI
   ([RFC2616], Section 10.5) identifies a process for unpacking and
   handling the message data and for generating a reply for the client
   that contains a message disposition acknowledgement (MDN), either
   signed or unsigned.  The MDN is either returned in the HTTP response
   message body or by a new HTTP POST operation to a URL for the
   original sender.

   This request/reply transactional interchange can provide secure,
   reliable, and authenticated transport for EDI or other business data
   using HTTP as a transfer protocol.  HTTPS is RECOMMENDED as the
   default transport for new implementations (see Section 10.1).

   The security protocols and structures used also support auditable
   records of these document data transmissions, acknowledgements, and
   authentication.

   The message formats and processing requirements described below
   maintain strict backward compatibility (see Section 1.2).

2.2.  Purpose of a Security Guideline for MIME EDI

   The purpose of these specifications is to ensure interoperability
   between B2B EC user agents, invoking some or all of the commonly
   expected security features.  This document is not limited to strict
   EDI use; it applies to any electronic commerce application for which
   business data needs to be exchanged securely over the Internet.

2.3.  Definitions

2.3.1.  The Secure Transmission Loop

   This document's focus is on the formats and protocols for exchanging
   EDI/EC content securely in the Internet's HTTP environment.

   In the "secure transmission loop" for EDI/EC, one organization sends
   a signed, encrypted and compressed EDI/EC interchange to another
   organization and requests a signed receipt, and later the receiving
   organization sends this signed receipt back to the sending
   organization.  In other words, the following transpires:

  o  The organization sending EDI/EC data signs, encrypts and compresses
     the data using S/MIME. In addition, the message will request that
     a signed receipt be returned to the sender. To support NRR,
     the original sender retains records of the message, message-ID,
     and digest (MIC) value.

  o  The receiving organization decompresses and decrypts the message and
     verifies the signature, resulting in verified integrity of the data and
     authenticity of the sender.

  o  The receiving organization then returns a signed receipt using
     the HTTP reply body or a separate HTTP POST operation to the
     sending organization in the form of a signed message
     disposition notification.  This signed receipt will contain the
     hash of the received message, allowing the original sender to
     have evidence that the received message was authenticated
     and/or decrypted properly by the receiver.

   The above describes functionality that, if implemented, will satisfy
   all security requirements and implement non-repudiation of receipt
   for the exchange.  This specification, however, leaves full
   flexibility for users to decide the degree to which they want to
   deploy those security features with their trading partners.

2.3.2.  Definition of Receipts

   The term used for both the functional activity and the message for
   acknowledging delivery of an EDI/EC interchange is "receipt" or
   "signed receipt".  The first term is used if the acknowledgment is
   for an interchange resulting in a receipt that is NOT signed.  The
   second term is used if the acknowledgement is for an interchange
   resulting in a receipt that IS signed.

   The term non-repudiation of receipt (NRR) is often used in
   combination with receipts.  NRR refers to a legal event that occurs
   only when the original sender of an interchange has verified the
   signed receipt coming back from the recipient of the message, and has
   verified that the returned MIC value inside the MDN matches the
   previously recorded value for the original message.

   NRR is best established when both the original message and the
   receipt make use of digital signatures.  See the Security
   Considerations section for some cautions regarding NRR.  For
   information on how to format and process receipts in AS2, refer to
   refer to Section 8.

2.4.  Assumptions

2.4.1.  EDI/EC Process Assumptions

   o Encrypted object is an EDI/EC Interchange.

   This specification assumes that a typical EDI/EC interchange (i.e.,
   the payload) is the lowest-level object that will be subject to
   security services.

   Specifically, in EDI ANSI X12, this means that anything between and
   including, segments ISA and IEA is secured.  In EDIFACT, this means
   that anything between, and including, segments UNA/UNB and UNZ is
   secured.  In other words, the EDI/EC interchanges including envelope
   segments remain intact and unreadable during fully secured transport.

   o EDI envelope headers are encrypted.

   Congruent with the above statement, EDI envelope headers are NOT
   visible in the MIME package.

   In order to optimize routing from existing commercial EDI networks
   (called Value Added Networks or VANs) to the Internet, it was
   previously useful to make some envelope information visible.  Since
   the EDI/EC message exchanges are routed over the public internet and
   not over VANs, this specification provides no support for this
   optimization.

   o X12.58 and UN/EDIFACT Security Considerations

   The most common EDI standards bodies, ANSI X12 and EDIFACT, have
   defined internal provisions for security.  X12.58 is the security
   mechanism for ANSI X12, and AUTACK provides security for EDIFACT.
   This specification does NOT dictate use or non-use of these security
   standards.  They are both fully compatible, though possibly
   redundant, with this specification.

2.4.2.  Flexibility Assumptions

   o Encrypted or Unencrypted Data

   This specification allows for EDI/EC message exchange in which the
   EDI/EC data can be either unprotected or protected by means of
   encryption.

   o Signed or Unsigned Data

   This specification allows for EDI/EC message exchange with or without
   digital signature of the original EDI transmission.

   o Compressed or Uncompressed Data

   This specification allows for optional compression and MAY be applied
   alone or in combination with signing and/or encryption, as defined in
   [RFC3274].  It is supported by AS2-Version: 1.1 and higher.

   o Optional Use of Receipt

   This specification allows for EDI/EC message transmission with or
   without a request for receipt notification.  A signed receipt
   notification is requested; however, a MIC value is REQUIRED as part
   of the returned receipt, except when a severe error condition
   prevents computation of the digest value.  In the exceptional case, a
   signed receipt should be returned with an error message that
   effectively explains why the required MIC value is absent.

   o Use of Synchronous or Asynchronous Receipts

   In addition to a receipt request, this specification allows for the
   designation of the type of receipt that should be returned.  It
   supports synchronous or asynchronous receipts in the MDN format
   specified in Section 8 of this document.

   o Security Formatting

   This specification relies on the guidelines set forth in RFC
   3851/3852 [RFC3851] / [RFC3852] "S/MIME Version 3.1 Message
   Specification; Cryptographic Message Syntax" as well as RFC 8551
   [RFC8551] "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME)
   Version 4.0" for modern implementations.

   o Hash Function, Message Digest Choices

   When a signature is used, implementations MUST support SHA-256 and
   SHOULD support SHA-384 or stronger.  SHA-1 MAY be supported for
   incoming messages for backward compatibility, but SHOULD NOT be
   generated for outgoing messages unless it is strictly required for
   interoperability.  MD5 is obsolete and MUST NOT be generated by
   conformant implementations.

   o Permutation Summary

   The optional use of compression, as defined in [RFC3274] was
   introduced in AS2-Version 1.1.  Compression can be applied to the
   message payload before signing and/or encryption, reducing
   transmission size and improving efficiency.  Most modern AS2
   implementations support compression, and it can be used by itself or
   in combination with signing and encryption.

   The following summary therefore extends the original AS2 security
   permutations to include the additional possibilities created by the
   use of compression, resulting in a total of twenty-four security
   permutations.

   Without Compression (12 permutations)

   1.   Sender sends un-encrypted data and does NOT request a receipt.

   2.   Sender sends un-encrypted data and requests an unsigned receipt.
        Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   3.   Sender sends un-encrypted data and requests a signed receipt.
        Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   4.   Sender sends encrypted data and does NOT request a receipt.

   5.   Sender sends encrypted data and requests an unsigned receipt.
        Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   6.   Sender sends encrypted data and requests a signed receipt.
        Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   7.   Sender sends signed data and does NOT request a signed or
        unsigned receipt.

   8.   Sender sends signed data and requests an unsigned receipt.
        Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   9.   Sender sends signed data and requests a signed receipt.
        Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   10.  Sender sends encrypted and signed data and does NOT request a
        signed or unsigned receipt.

   11.  Sender sends encrypted and signed data and requests an unsigned
        receipt.  Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   12.  Sender sends encrypted and signed data and requests a signed
        receipt.  Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   With Compression (12 permutations)

   13.  Sender sends compressed data (not encrypted or signed) and does
        NOT request a receipt.

   14.  Sender sends compressed data and requests an unsigned receipt.
        Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   15.  Sender sends compressed data and requests a signed receipt.
        Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   16.  Sender sends compressed and encrypted data and does NOT request
        a receipt.

   17.  Sender sends compressed and encrypted data and requests an
        unsigned receipt.  Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   18.  Sender sends compressed and encrypted data and requests a signed
        receipt.  Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   19.  Sender sends compressed and signed data and does NOT request a
        signed or unsigned receipt.

   20.  Sender sends compressed and signed data and requests an unsigned
        receipt.  Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   21.  Sender sends compressed and signed data and requests a signed
        receipt.  Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   22.  Sender sends compressed, encrypted, and signed data and does NOT
        request a signed or unsigned receipt.

   23.  Sender sends compressed, encrypted, and signed data and requests
        an unsigned receipt.  Receiver sends back the unsigned receipt.

   24.  Sender sends compressed, encrypted, and signed data and requests
        a signed receipt.  Receiver sends back the signed receipt.

   *Key Notes*

   o Compression MAY be applied alone or in combination with signing
   and/or encryption, as defined in [RFC3274] and is supported by
   AS2-Version 1.1 and higher.

   o Users may choose any of these twenty-four possibilities, but only
   the final example (24), when compression, signing, encryption, and a
   signed receipt are all used, offers the full suite of security and
   efficiency features described in Section 2.3.1, “The Secure
   Transmission Loop.”

   o As with the original permutations, the receipts may be either
   synchronous or asynchronous, and the choice does not change the
   nature of the secure transmission loop in support of NRR.

3.  Referenced RFCs and Their Contributions

3.1.  RFC 2616 HTTP v1.1 [RFC2616]

   This document specifies how data is transferred using HTTP.

3.2.  RFC 1847 MIME Security Multiparts [RFC1847]

   This document defines security multipart for MIME: multipart/
   encrypted and multipart/signed.

3.3.  RFC 3462 Multipart/Report [RFC3462]

   This RFC defines the use of the multipart/report content type,
   something that the MDN RFC 3798 builds upon.

3.4.  RFC 1767 EDI Content [RFC1767]

   This RFC defines the use of content type "application" for ANSI X12
   (application/EDI-X12), EDIFACT (application/EDIFACT), and mutually
   defined EDI (application/EDI-Consent).

3.5.  RFC 2045, 2046, and 2049 MIME [RFC2045], [RFC2046], and [RFC2049]

   These are the basic MIME standards, upon which all MIME related RFCs
   build, including this one.  Key contributions include definitions of
   "content type", "sub-type", and "multipart", as well as encoding
   guidelines, which establish 7-bit US-ASCII as the canonical character
   set to be used in Internet messaging.

3.6.  RFC 3798 Message Disposition Notification [RFC3798]

   This Internet RFC defines how an MDN is requested, and the format and
   syntax of the MDN.  The MDN is the basis upon which receipts and
   signed receipts are defined in this specification.

3.7.  RFC 3851 and 3852 S/MIME Version 3.1 Message Specifications and
      Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) [RFC3851] / [RFC3852]

   This specification describes how S/MIME will carry CMS Objects.

3.8.  RFC 3023 XML Media Types [RFC3023]

   This RFC defines the use of content type "application" for XML
   (application/xml).

3.9.  RFC 3274 Compressed Data Content Type for Cryptographic Message
      Syntax (CMS) [RFC3274]

   This RFC defines a mechanism for compressing data within the
   Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS), which is the foundation for
   Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME).  It specifies
   a CompressedData content type that allows data to be compressed prior
   to being signed or encrypted.  This reduces the size of transmitted
   messages and improves efficiency without altering the security
   services provided by signing or encryption.  AS2-Version 1.1
   incorporated the compression capability described in RFC 3274,
   enabling trading partners to optionally apply compression to message
   payloads before signing and/or encrypting.  Most modern AS2
   implementations support this feature to reduce bandwidth usage and
   improve transmission performance, particularly for large payloads.

4.  Structure of an AS2 Message

4.1.  Introduction

   The basic structure of an AS2 message consists of MIME format inside
   an HTTP message with a few additional specific AS2 headers.  The
   structures below are described hierarchically in terms of which RFCs
   are applied to form the specific structure.  For details on how to
   code in compliance with all RFCs involved, refer to the specific
   RFCs.  Any difference between AS2 implementations and RFCs are
   mentioned specifically in the sections below.

4.2.  Structure of an Internet EDI MIME Message

      No encryption, no signature, no compression
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC1767/RFC3023 (application/EDIxxxx or /xml)

      No encryption, signature, no compression
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC1847 (multipart/signed)
             - RFC1767/RFC3023 (application/EDIxxxx or /xml)
             - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-signature)

      Encryption, no signature, no compression
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-mime)
             - RFC1767/RFC3023  (application/EDIxxxx or /xml) (encrypted)

      Encryption, signature, no compression
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-mime)
             - RFC1847 (multipart/signed)(encrypted)
               - RFC1767/RFC3023  (application/EDIxxxx or /xml) (encrypted)
               - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-signature)(encrypted)

      No encryption, no signature (with optional compression)
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC3274 (application/pkcs7-mime; CompressedData) [optional]
             - RFC1767/RFC3023 (application/EDIxxxx or /xml)

      No encryption, signature (compression may occur before or after signing)
         - RFC2616/2045
           - [optional RFC3274 (CompressedData) if compress-before-sign]
             - RFC1847 (multipart/signed)
               - [optional RFC3274 (CompressedData) if compress-after-sign]
                 - RFC1767/RFC3023 (application/EDIxxxx or /xml)
                 - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-signature)

      Encryption, no signature (with optional compression)
          - RFC2616/2045
            - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-mime)
              - [optional RFC3274 (CompressedData)]
                - RFC1767/RFC3023 (application/EDIxxxx or /xml) (encrypted)

      Encryption, signature (compression may occur before or after signing)
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-mime)
             - [optional RFC3274 (CompressedData) if compress-before-sign]
               - RFC1847 (multipart/signed) (encrypted)
                 - [optional RFC3274 (CompressedData) if compress-after-sign]
                 - RFC1767/RFC3023 (application/EDIxxxx or /xml) (encrypted)
                 - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-signature) (encrypted)

      MDN over HTTP, no signature
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC3798 (message/disposition-notification)

      MDN over HTTP, signature
         - RFC2616/2045
           - RFC1847 (multipart/signed)
            - RFC3798 (message/disposition-notification)
            - RFC3851 (application/pkcs7-signature)

   *Key Notes*

   o RFC 3274 (CompressedData) is the normative reference for
   compression.

   o Compression MAY be combined with signing and/or encryption in
   either order, but the choice affects what the digital signature
   covers.

   o Many implementations compress before signing and encrypting to
   maximize size reduction, but compression after signing and before
   encrypting MUST also be supported.

   o Although all MIME content types SHOULD be supported, the following
   MIME content types MUST be supported:

            Content-type: multipart/signed
            Content-Type: multipart/report
            Content-type: message/disposition-notification
            Content-Type: application/PKCS7-signature
            Content-Type: application/PKCS7-mime
            Content-Type: application/EDI-X12
            Content-Type: application/EDIFACT
            Content-Type: application/edi-consent
            Content-Type: application/XML

5.  HTTP Considerations

   This specification permits but does not require the use of HTTP/2 or
   HTTP/3 as transport protocols.  Interoperability testing and
   certification are scoped to HTTP/1.1 unless otherwise agreed upon
   between trading partners.

5.1.  Sending EDI in HTTP POST Requests

   The request line will have the form: "POST Request-URI HTTP/1.1",
   with spaces and followed by a CRLF.  The Request URI is typically
   exchanged out of band, as part of setting up a bilateral trading
   partner agreement.  Applications SHOULD be prepared to deal with an
   initial reply containing a status indicating a need for
   authentication of the usual types used for authorizing access to the
   Request-URI ([RFC2616], Section 10.4.2 and elsewhere).

   The request line is followed by entity headers specifying content
   length ([RFC2616], Section 14.14) and content type ([RFC2616],
   Section 14.18).  The Host request header ([RFC2616], Sections 9 and
   14.23) is also included.

   When using Transport Layer Security (TLS), the request-URI MUST
   indicate the appropriate scheme value, HTTPS.  Implementations MUST
   support TLS 1.2 or higher and SHOULD follow the guidance in
   Section 10.1.  Encrypted message bodies MAY be used in addition to
   TLS when required by business policy.

   The receiving AS2 system MAY disconnect from the sending AS2 system
   before completing the reception of the entire entity if it determines
   that the entity being sent is too large to process.

   For HTTP version 1.1, TCP persistent connections are the default,
   ([RFC2616] Sections 8.1.2, 8.2, and 19.7.1).  A number of other
   differences exist because HTTP does not conform to MIME [RFC2616] as
   used in SMTP transport.  Relevant differences are summarized below.

5.2.  Unused MIME Headers and Operations

5.2.1.  Content-Transfer-Encoding Not Used in HTTP Transport

   HTTP can handle binary data and so there is no need to use the
   content transfer encodings of MIME [RFC2616].  This difference is
   discussed in [RFC2616], Section 19.4.5.  However, a content transfer
   encoding value of binary or 8-bit is permissible but not required.
   The absence of this header MUST NOT result in transaction failure.
   Content transfer encoding of MIME bodyparts within the AS2 message
   body is also allowed.

5.2.2.  Message Bodies

   In [RFC2616], Section 3.7.2, it is explicitly noted that multiparts
   MUST have null epilogues.

   For HTTP transport, large files SHOULD be handled correctly by the
   TCP layer.  In addition, [RFC2616], Sections 3.5 and 3.6 describe
   options for compressing or chunking entities to be transferred, and
   Section 8.1.2.2 describes a pipelining option that is useful for
   segmenting large amounts of data.  These clarifications are
   consistent with existing AS2 practice and maintain full backward
   compatibility (see Section 1.2).

5.3.  Modification of MIME or Other Headers or Parameters Used

5.3.1.  Content-Length

   The use of the content-length header MUST follow the guidelines of
   [RFC2616], specifically Sections 4.4 and 14.13.

5.3.2.  Final Recipient and Original Recipient

   The final and original recipient values SHOULD be the same value.
   These values MUST NOT be aliases or mailing lists.

5.3.3.  Message-Id and Original-Message-Id

   The Message-Id and Original-Message-Id headers identify a message
   uniquely and are formatted as defined in [RFC5322], Section 3.6.4:

         "<" id-left "@" id-right ">"

   The length of a Message-Id value MUST NOT exceed 998 characters.  For
   maximum interoperability, the length SHOULD be 255 characters or
   less.

   The Message-Id value MUST be globally unique, and the id-right
   portion SHOULD be something unique to the sending host environment
   (for example, a fully qualified domain name).

   Implementations that generate Message-Id values MUST NOT include
   spaces or control characters.  Implementations SHOULD remove spaces
   rather than substitute another character when constructing
   identifiers from other message attributes such as AS2-From or AS2-To.

   Receivers are not required to accept malformed identifiers.  If a
   message is received with a Message-Id that contains spaces or control
   characters, the implementation SHOULD treat it as syntactically
   invalid and SHOULD return an MDN with a disposition of processed/
   error and a human-readable explanation such as "invalid-message-id"
   (see [RFC8098]).  If an implementation chooses to proceed despite the
   malformed identifier, it MUST NOT propagate or generate a new message
   using that malformed value.

   When sending a message, the Message-Id field value MUST be enclosed
   in angle brackets (“<” and “>”).  The brackets are not part of the
   actual identifier value.  For backward compatibility, receiving
   implementations SHOULD NOT reject a message that omits angle
   brackets.

   When creating the Original-Message-Id header in an MDN, always use
   the exact syntax as received on the original message; do not strip or
   add angle brackets.

   See [RFC5322], Section 3.6.4.

5.3.4.  Host Header

   The host request header field MUST be included in the POST request
   made when sending business data.  This field is intended to allow one
   server IP address to service multiple hostnames, and potentially to
   conserve IP addresses.  See [RFC2616], Sections 14.23 and 19.5.1.

5.4.  HTTP Response Status Codes

   Implementations MUST use standard HTTP response codes to signal the
   outcome of the message transfer.  The meaning of the HTTP status code
   is limited to the success or failure of the transport operation
   itself, not the semantic processing of the AS2 message content.  For
   example, the status code 401, together with the WWW-Authenticate
   header, is used to challenge the client to repeat the request with an
   Authorization header.  Other explicit status codes are documented in
   [RFC2616], Section 6.1.1 and throughout Section 10.

   Receiving implementations MAY send an interim 102 (Processing)
   response [RFC4918] under HTTP/1.1 to indicate that the inbound
   message has been fully received and that processing is underway.  The
   102 response can help prevent sender-side network timeouts for large
   synchronous transfers by signaling progress while decryption,
   signature verification, or storage continues.

   Use of 102 (Processing) is OPTIONAL.  It has been deprecated in later
   HTTP specifications and *MUST NOT* be used with HTTP/2 or HTTP/3,
   where interim responses have different semantics.  Implementations
   Implementations that do not receive a 102 response MUST NOT assume
   that a failure has occurred solely because no interim status was
   returned.  They SHOULD continue waiting for the final status response
   for at least the duration of their configured HTTP read timeout or
   any timeout agreed upon between trading partners.

   To minimize the risk of network timeouts during lengthy message
   processing, receivers SHOULD return an appropriate transfer-layer
   response as quickly as possible after receiving the full message
   content.  For asynchronous message exchanges, the preferred response
   is 204 No Content, which indicates that the message has been received
   successfully and that an asynchronous MDN will follow once processing
   has completed.  This convention is maintained for interoperability
   with existing AS2 products and certification profiles.

   Some implementations MAY instead use 202 Accepted to indicate
   successful receipt and deferred processing; however, 204 No Content
   remains the recommended and most widely deployed response for
   asynchronous workflows.

   Implementations MAY close the connection immediately after sending
   this response if persistent connections are not required by
   configuration.

   After processing completes, the receiver MUST return a final HTTP
   status code indicating the success or failure of the message
   transfer.  The sender MUST use this final response to determine
   whether retry is appropriate.

   Retry *MUST NOT* be attempted when:

 o the final HTTP response indicates successful receipt (e.g., `200 OK` or
   `204 No Content` for asynchronous transfers, or `202 Accepted` for
   implementations that use deferred processing semantics) **and** a
   valid MDN has been received confirming the message disposition; or
 o a permanent-failure status code is returned (4xx other than 408), or

   Retry *MAY* be attempted when:

 o the HTTP connection fails before the final status is received,
 o a transient error such as 408 (Request Timeout) or 5xx (Server Error)
   occurs, or
 o no response is received within the configured timeout.

   Implementations SHOULD refer to Section 5.5 for additional guidance
   on retry logic, back-off behavior, and use of partial-transfer
   recovery.  The 102 (Processing) status code, if used, MUST NOT be
   treated as a trigger for retry.

5.5.  HTTP Error Recovery and Reliability

   When an AS2 message transfer fails due to a transient transport-layer
   condition (for example, an HTTP 408 Request Timeout, 425 Too Early,
   500 Internal Server Error, 503 Service Unavailable or network
   interruption before the final response), the sending system SHOULD
   attempt an automatic retry.

   Each retry attempt MUST reuse the same Message-ID value so that the
   receiving system can identify duplicate transmissions and prevent
   double-processing.  A receiving system detecting a duplicate Message-
   ID MUST NOT treat the message as new and SHOULD return the previously
   generated MDN, if available.

   Implementations SHOULD permit configuration of retry behavior rather
   than enforcing fixed intervals or limits.  The following guidelines
   are RECOMMENDED but not required:

  o **Retry intervals** SHOULD increase exponentially (e.g., 5 min,
    10 min, 20 min, 40 min, …) to reduce congestion.
  o **Retry duration** SHOULD be configurable based on business
    requirements; some environments may continue for several days, while
    others may terminate after one or two attempts.
  o **Maximum attempts** SHOULD be limited to prevent indefinite
    retries when persistent errors occur.

   Implementations SHOULD NOT retry when:

   o A final 2xx response and/or valid MDN has been received;
   o The HTTP response indicates a permanent failure (e.g., 400, 401,
     403, 404);
   o The partner has explicitly rejected the message by sending a signed
     MDN with a "failed" disposition.

   The HTTP 102 (Processing) interim status MAY be used under HTTP/1.1
   to indicate progress on long-running synchronous operations.  It MUST
   NOT be used as a signal to initiate or suppress retries.
   Implementations MUST ignore 102 responses when determining whether a
   retry is required.  The 102 response MUST NOT be used with HTTP/2 or
   HTTP/3.

   Implementations MAY also support *AS2 Restart*, which allows a
   partially uploaded message to resume from the point of interruption
   rather than retransmitting the entire payload.  This optional feature
   is defined in [I-D.draft-harding-as2-restart-02].  Implementations
   supporting Restart MUST ensure message integrity through signature or
   checksum validation of all resumed segments.

   Additional guidance for retry management, error classification, and
   duplicate detection is described in
   [I-D.draft-duker-as2-reliability-16].  While both of these drafts are
   expired, they remain widely referenced in AS2 interoperability
   testing and provide a useful operational baseline for error-recovery
   behavior.

   The objective of error recovery is reliability, not speed.  Systems
   SHOULD favor successful delivery over strict timing, provided that
   duplicate protection and security requirements are preserved.

6.  Additional AS2-Specific HTTP Headers

   The following headers are to be included in all AS2 messages and all
   AS2 MDNs.  [RFC3335].

6.1.  AS2 Version Header

   To promote backward compatibility, AS2 includes a version header.
   The major version digit indicates wire-level compatibility; minor
   version digits designate feature sets, clarifications, or extensions
   that remain compatible within the same major version.  Thus, all
   values in the "1.x" range are compatible with AS2-Version 1.0, while
   a future "2.0" would indicate a non-backward-compatible revision.

   Receiving systems MUST NOT fail due to the absence of the AS2-Version
   header.  Its absence MUST be assumed to be equivalent to the default
   AS2-Version value of 1.0.

      AS2-Version: 1.0  - All implementations of this specification MUST support and
                          advertise "AS2-Version: 1.0". Versions in the range "1.0"
                          through "1.9" MAY be used. All implementations MUST interpret
                          any value in that range as conforming to this specification,
                          with no differences in baseline behavior. In other words, only
                          the major version digit ("1") defines compatibility for implementations
                          that do not support additional, non-AS2-specified functionality.

                          Implementations MAY use "1.1" through "1.9" to signal extensions of
                          this specification. Any such extensions MUST be fully transparent to
                          implementations that recognize only "AS2-Version: 1.0".

      AS2-Version: 1.1  - Designates those implementations that MUST support compression as
                          defined by RFC 3274.

      AS2-Version: 1.2  - Indicates those implementations that include an EDIINT-Features header
                          as defined in RFC 6017. The values in an EDIINT-Features header specify
                          the features supported by the AS2 implementation. Examples may include
                          CEM, AS2-Reliability and multiple-attachments, however others may also be included.
                          A receiving implementation MUST NOT fail if it does not support or understand
                          any of the supported values contained within an EDIINT-Features header.

      AS2-Version: 1.3  - Indicates those implementations that support the modernization defined
                          by this specification, including updated algorithm requirements (e.g.,
                          SHA-256 for MIC/signatures; AES as the encryption baseline per [RFC8551]),
                          alignment with MDN handling as specified in [RFC8098], and support for
                          multiple-recipient encryption as described in [Section 7.2](#encryption-algorithms){:format="none"}
                          of this specification.

                          When both partners are configured for AS2 version 1.3, weak algorithms (e.g., SHA-1,
                          3DES, RC2, MD5) MUST NOT be generated by conformant implementations. When interoperating
                          with a legacy partner that operates at AS2 version 1.2 or lower, implementations MAY apply
                          the legacy interoperability clarifications described in Appendix B (non-normative).

                          Future minor versions (1.x) may designate additional extensions or clarifications
                          that remain backward-compatible with AS2 version 1.0. A major version update
                          (2.0 or higher) would indicate a non-backward-compatible revision.

6.2.  AS2 Product header

   The AS2-Product header value identifies the AS2 product and version
   used by the sender.  This information enables interoperability
   testing, certification, and troubleshooting by allowing trading
   partners to detect known product-specific behaviors or version-
   related quirks.

   The AS2-Product header value is OPTIONAL for AS2-Version 1.x systems
   but MUST be included in messages generated by implementations
   declaring *AS2-Version: 1.3 or 2.0* (or later).

   The header field value MUST follow the format:

        * <product-name>: lowercase alphanumeric and hyphen characters (a–z,
           0–9, "-") without spaces.
        * <major.minor[.patch]>: version string consistent with the product’s
           release version, with one or more numeric components separated by dots.

      Examples:

         AS2-Product: biztalk:2025.1
         AS2-Product: drummond-connect:4.2.3

   Implementations *MUST NOT* use arbitrary identifiers or vendor
   aliases that do not reflect the actual product in use.  The value is
   static and determined at build time.  If a product supports multiple
   AS2 variants, the version portion MAY include an implementation-
   specific suffix (e.g., "1.2-drummond").

   Implementations MAY use the AS2-Product value for automated
   interoperability tuning or to apply compatibility workarounds for
   known product versions.  However, this field is not intended for
   feature-negotiation purposes; supported feature tokens belong in the
   EDIINT-Features header.

6.3.  AS2 System Identifiers

   To aid the receiving system in identifying the sending system,
   AS2-From and AS2-To headers are used.

         AS2-From: < AS2-name >
         AS2-To: < AS2-name >

   These AS2 headers contain textual values, as described below,
   identifying the sender/receiver of a data exchange.  Their values may
   be company specific, such as Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS)
   numbers, or they may be simply identification strings agreed upon
   between the trading partners.

     AS2-text = "!" /           ; printable ASCII characters
                %d35-91 /       ; except double-quote (%d34)
                %d93-126        ; or backslash (%d92)

     AS2-qtext = AS2-text / SP  ; allow space only in quoted text

     AS2-quoted-pair = "\" DQUOTE /  ; \" or
                       "\" "\"       ; \\

     AS2-quoted-name = DQUOTE 1*128( AS2-qtext /
                                     AS2-quoted-pair) DQUOTE

     AS2-atomic-name = 1*128AS2-text

     AS2-name = AS2-atomic-name / AS2-quoted-name

   The AS2-From header value and the AS2-To header value:

 o  MUST each be an AS2-name,
 o  MUST each be comprised of from 1 to 128 printable ASCII characters, and
 o  MUST NOT be folded
 o  The value in each of these headers is **case-sensitive**.

   The string definitions given above are in ABNF format [RFC2234].

   The AS2-quoted-name SHOULD be used only if the AS2-name does not
   conform to AS2-atomic-name.  This explicitly includes situations
   where embedded spaces are part of the AS2-name.

   The AS2-To and AS2-From header fields MUST be present in all AS2
   messages and AS2 MDNs whether they are synchronous or asynchronous in
   nature.

   The AS2-name for the AS2-To header in a response or MDN MUST match
   the AS2-name of the AS2-From header in the corresponding request
   message.  Likewise, the AS2-name for the AS2-From header in a
   response or MDN MUST match the AS2-name of the AS2-To header in the
   corresponding AS2 request message.

   The sending system may choose to limit the possible AS2-To/AS2-From
   textual values but MUST not exceed them.  The receiving system MUST
   make no restrictions on the textual values and SHOULD handle all
   possible implementations.  However, implementers must be aware that
   older AS2 products may not adhere to this convention.  Trading
   partner agreements should be made to ensure that older products can
   support the system identifiers that are used.

   There is no required response to a client request containing invalid
   or unknown AS2-From or AS2-To header values.  The receiving AS2
   system MAY return an unsigned MDN with an explanation of the error,
   such as an MDN error disposition value of "unknown-trading-
   relationship", if the sending system requested an MDN.

7.  Algorithm Requirements

   This section defines the normative requirements for cryptographic
   algorithms used in AS2.  These requirements apply to all conformant
   implementations.  Guidance on interoperability with legacy AS2
   systems that continue to use older algorithms is provided separately
   in Appendix B.

7.1.  Hash Algorithms

   Implementations MUST support SHA-256 for message integrity check
   (MIC) calculations and digital signatures.  Implementations SHOULD
   support SHA-384 or stronger algorithms.  SHA-1 and MD5 are deprecated
   due to known weaknesses and MUST NOT be generated by conformant
   implementations.

   See Appendix B for clarifications on handling legacy algorithms when
   interoperating with RFC 4130 systems.

7.2.  Encryption Algorithms

   Implementations MUST support AES encryption algorithms as defined in
   S/MIME Version 4.0 [RFC8551].  At a minimum, AES-128-CBC MUST be
   supported, and AES-256-CBC SHOULD be supported.  Implementations are
   also RECOMMENDED to support AES-128-GCM and AES-256-GCM.  Support for
   AES-CCM is also RECOMMENDED for environments requiring authenticated
   encryption.

   Triple DES (3DES) and RC2 are deprecated and MUST NOT be generated by
   conformant implementations.

   To support recoverable decryption and regulatory requirements,
   implementations SHOULD support multiple-recipient encryption of the
   content-encryption key (CEK), consistent with [RFC8551] Section 3.3.
   A copy of the CEK encrypted for the originator SHOULD also be
   included in the EnvelopedData, and the same principle applies to
   AuthEnvelopedData when using AES-CCM or AES-GCM.

   See Appendix B for guidance on handling 3DES and other weak
   algorithms when interoperating with legacy AS2 systems.

8.  Structure and Processing of an MDN Message

   This document aligns MDN behavior with RFC 8098, clarifying semantics
   for interoperability.  It does not redefine the MDN format.
   Implementations MUST be able to parse historic MDN forms as described
   in RFC 3798 for backward compatibility.

8.1.  Introduction

   In order to support non-repudiation of receipt, a signed receipt,
   based on digitally signing a message disposition notification, is to
   be implemented by a receiving trading partner's UA.  The message
   disposition notification, specified by RFC 3798, is digitally signed
   by a receiving trading partner as part of a multipart/signed MIME
   message.

   The requirements in this section update but do not alter the
   compatibility of MDN formats with existing AS2 implementations (see
   Section 1.2).  This ensures interoperability with both RFC 3798 and
   RFC 8098 implementations.

   The following support for signed receipts is REQUIRED:

     1. The ability to create a multipart/report; where the
        report-type = disposition-notification.

     2. The ability to calculate a message integrity check (MIC) on the
        received message. The calculated MIC value will be returned to
        the sender of the message inside the signed receipt.

     3. The ability to create a multipart/signed content with the
        message disposition notification as the first body part, and
        the signature as the second body part.

     4. The ability to return the signed receipt to the sending trading
        partner.

     5. The ability to return either a synchronous or an asynchronous
        receipt as the sending party requests.

   The signed receipt is used to notify a sending trading partner that
   requested the signed receipt that:

     1. The receiving trading partner acknowledges receipt of the sent
        EC Interchange.

     2. If the sent message was signed, then the receiving trading
        partner has authenticated the sender of the EC Interchange.

     3. If the sent message was signed, then the receiving trading
        partner has verified the integrity of the sent EC Interchange.

   Regardless of whether the EDI/EC Interchange was sent in S/MIME
   format, the receiving trading partner's UA MUST provide the following
   basic processing:

     1. If the sent EDI/EC Interchange is encrypted, then the encrypted
        symmetric key and initialization vector (if applicable) is
        decrypted using the receiver's private key.

     2. The decrypted symmetric encryption key is then used to decrypt
        the EDI/EC Interchange.

     3. The receiving trading partner authenticates signatures in a
        message using the sender's public key. The authentication
        algorithm performs the following:

        a. The message integrity check (MIC or Message Digest), is
           decrypted using the sender's public key.

        b. A MIC on the signed contents (the MIME header and encoded
           EDI object, as per RFC 1767) in the message received is
           calculated using the same one-way hash function that the
           sending trading partner used.

        c. The MIC extracted from the message that was sent and the MIC
           calculated using the same one-way hash function that the
           sending trading partner used are compared for equality.

     4. The receiving trading partner formats the MDN and sets the
        calculated MIC into the "Received-content-MIC" extension field.

     5. The receiving trading partner creates a multipart/signed MIME
        message according to RFC 1847.

     6. The MDN is the first part of the multipart/signed message, and
        the digital signature is created over this MDN, including its
        MIME headers.

     7. The second part of the multipart/signed message contains the
        digital signature. The "protocol" option specified in the
        second part of the multipart/signed is as follows:

              S/MIME: protocol = "application/pkcs7-signature"

     8. The signature information is formatted according to S/MIME
        specifications.

   The EC Interchange and the RFC 1767 MIME EDI content header can
   actually be part of a multi-part MIME content-type.  When the EDI
   Interchange is part of a multi-part MIME content-type, the MIC MUST
   be calculated across the entire multi-part content, including the
   MIME headers contained within the multi-part MIME content.

   The signed MDN, when received by the sender of the EDI Interchange,
   can be used by the sender as follows:

       o  As an acknowledgement that the EDI Interchange sent was
          delivered and acknowledged by the receiving trading partner.
          The receiver does this by returning the original-message-id
          of the sent message in the MDN portion of the signed receipt.

       o  As an acknowledgement that the integrity of the EDI
          Interchange was verified by the receiving trading partner.
          The receiver does this by returning the calculated MIC of the
          received EC Interchange (and 1767 MIME headers) in the
          "Received-content-MIC" field of the signed MDN.

       o  As an acknowledgement that the receiving trading partner has
          authenticated the sender of the EDI Interchange.

       o  As a non-repudiation of receipt when the signed MDN is
          successfully verified by the sender with the receiving
          trading partner's public key and the returned MIC value
          inside the MDN is the same as the digest of the original
          message.

8.2.  Synchronous and Asynchronous MDNs

   The AS2-MDN exists in two varieties: synchronous and asynchronous.

   The synchronous AS2-MDN is sent as an HTTP response to an HTTP POST
   or as an HTTPS response to an HTTPS POST.  This form of AS2-MDN is
   called synchronous because the AS2-MDN is returned to the originator
   of the POST on the same TCP/IP connection.

   The synchronous response MUST indicate transfer-layer success or
   failure, such as 200 OK or 202 Accepted.  The format of this response
   MAY be identical to that used when no AS2-MDN is requested.

   The asynchronous AS2-MDN is sent on a separate HTTP or HTTPS TCP/IP
   connection.  Logically, the asynchronous AS2-MDN is a response to an
   AS2 message.  However, at the transfer-protocol layer, assuming that
   no HTTP pipelining is utilized, the asynchronous AS2-MDN is delivered
   on a unique TCP/IP connection, distinct from that used to deliver the
   original AS2 message.

   When handling an asynchronous request, the receiving system *SHOULD*
   return a transfer-layer response (typically 202 Accepted or 204 No
   Content) as soon as the last byte of the inbound message has been
   received, without waiting for decryption, signature verification, or
   message persistence.  This minimizes the risk of network timeouts and
   ensures that the sender can begin awaiting the asynchronous MDN
   promptly.  The asynchronous MDN MUST be transmitted as an independent
   HTTP message, separate from the original connection used to submit
   the AS2 message.

   Implementations *MAY* use persistent (keep-alive) HTTP connections.
   Closing the TCP connection immediately after sending the response is
   *RECOMMENDED* for simplicity, but not required.  Some application
   servers and frameworks manage connection lifecycles automatically and
   may keep the socket open.  The AS2 specification does not mandate
   that the AS2 layer explicitly close the connection.

   The following diagram illustrates the synchronous versus asynchronous
   varieties of AS2-MDN delivery using HTTP:

      Synchronous AS2-MDN

      {Peer1} ----( connect )----> {Peer2}
      {Peer1} -----( send )------> {Peer2}   HTTP Request {AS2-Message}
      {Peer1} <---( receive )----- {Peer2}   HTTP Response {AS2-MDN}

      Asynchronous AS2-MDN

      {Peer1} ----( connect )----> {Peer2}
      {Peer1} -----( send )------> {Peer2}   HTTP Request {AS2-Message}
      {Peer1} <---( receive )----- {Peer2}   HTTP Response (e.g., "200 OK" or "204 No Content")
      {Peer1}*<---( connect )----- {Peer2}
      {Peer1} <--- ( send )------- {Peer2}   HTTP Request {AS2-MDN}
      {Peer1} ----( receive )----> {Peer2}   HTTP Response

   *  Note: An AS2-MDN may be directed to a host different from that of
      the sender of the AS2 message.  It may also utilize a transfer
      protocol different from that used to send the original AS2
      message.

   The advantage of the synchronous MDN is that it provides the sender
   of the AS2 message with a verifiable confirmation of delivery within
   a single synchronous logic flow.  However, if the message is large,
   the time required to process it and return the AS2-MDN on the same
   connection may exceed the maximum configured time permitted for
   maintaining an open connection.

   The advantage of the asynchronous MDN is that it provides for the
   rapid return of a transfer-layer acknowledgment from the receiver,
   confirming receipt of data, while allowing full processing to occur
   later.  This reduces connection duration and timeout risk.  However,
   the asynchronous AS2-MDN MUST include sufficient identifying
   information (for example, Original-Message-ID and Final-Recipient) so
   that the message originator can correlate the MDN with its original
   message and update the processing status accordingly.

   Synchronous and asynchronous HTTP or HTTPS MDNs are both valid under
   this specification.  Implementations MUST support receiving both
   types and SHOULD support sending both.

8.3.  Requesting a Signed Receipt

   Message disposition notifications are requested as per RFC 3798.  A
   request that the receiving user agent issue a message disposition
   notification is made by placing the following header into the message
   to be sent:

       MDN-request-header = "Disposition-notification-to"
                           ":"  mail-address

   The following example is for requesting an MDN:

       Disposition-notification-to: xxx@example.com

   The "Disposition-notification-to" header field is retained for
   compatibility with the MDN specification [RFC3798], but its value is
   not used by AS2 implementations to determine where to return the MDN.
   Its presence just indicates that an MDN receipt is to be returned to
   the originator.  In AS2, the field value may be an email address, a
   URL, a fully qualified domain name, an AS2 identifier, or any other
   implementation-specific string.  Implementations MUST NOT reject a
   message based on the syntax of this field.  This document relaxes the
   original requirement from RFC 4130, which mandated an email address,
   in order to reflect current AS2 practice while maintaining backward
   compatibility (see Section 1.2).

   When requesting MDN-based receipts, the originator supplies
   additional extension headers that precede the message body.  These
   header "tags" are as follows:

   A Message-ID header is added to support message reconciliation, so
   that an Original-Message-Id value can be returned in the body part of
   MDN.  Other headers, especially "Subject" and "Date", SHOULD be
   supplied; the values of these headers are often mentioned in the
   human-readable section of a MDN to aid in identifying the original
   message.

   MDNs will be returned in the HTTP response when requested, unless an
   asynchronous MDN is requested.

   To request an asynchronous message disposition notification, the
   following header is placed into the message that is sent:

       Receipt-Delivery-Option: return-URL

   This is an example requesting that the MDN be asynchronous:

       Receipt-Delivery-Option: http://www.example.com/Path

   Receipt-delivery-option syntax allows the return-url to use some
   schemes other than HTTP using the POST method.

   The "receipt-delivery-option: return-url" string indicates the URL to
   use for an asynchronous MDN.  This header is NOT present if the
   receipt is to be synchronous.  The email value in Disposition-
   notification-to is not used in this specification because it was
   limited to RFC 2822 addresses (now replaced by [RFC5322]); the
   extension header "Receipt-delivery-option" has been introduced to
   provide a URL for the MDN return by several transfer options.

   The receipt-delivery-option's value MUST be a URL indicating the
   delivery transport destination for the receipt.

   An example request for an asynchronous MDN via an HTTP transport:

       Receipt-delivery-option: http://www.example.com

   An example request for an asynchronous MDN via an HTTP/S transport:

       Receipt-delivery-option: https://www.example.com

   Finally, the header, Disposition-notification-options, identifies
   characteristics of message disposition notification as in [RFC3798].
   The most important of these options is for indicating the signing
   options for the MDN, as in the following example:

       Disposition-notification-options:
            signed-receipt-protocol=optional,pkcs7-signature;
            signed-receipt-micalg=optional,sha-256,sha1

   For signing options, consider the disposition-notification-options
   syntax:

       Disposition-notification-options =
                "Disposition-Notification-Options" ":"
                 disposition-notification-parameters
   where
            disposition-notification-parameters =
                              parameter *(";" parameter)

   where
            parameter = attribute "=" importance ", " 1#value"

   where
            importance = "required" | "optional"

   So the Disposition-notification-options string could be:

       signed-receipt-protocol=optional, <protocol symbol>;
       signed-receipt-micalg=optional, <micalg1>, <micalg2>,...;

   The currently used value for <protocol symbol> is "pkcs7-signature"
   for the S/MIME detached signature format.

   The currently supported values for MIC algorithm <micalg> values are:

    Algorithm   Value Used
    ---------    ---------
     SHA-256      sha-256
     SHA-384      sha-384
     SHA-512      sha-512
     SHA-1        sha-1 or sha1 (should *only* be used in legacy deployments that
                                 cannot support SHA-256 or greater)

   The semantics of the "signed-receipt-protocol" and the "signed-
   receipt-micalg" parameters are as follows:

   1.  The "signed-receipt-protocol" parameter is used to request a
       signed receipt from the recipient trading partner.  The "signed-
       receipt-protocol" parameter also specifies the format in which
       the signed receipt SHOULD be returned to the requester.

       The "signed-receipt-micalg" parameter identifies one or more
       message integrity check (MIC) algorithms, in order of preference,
       that the requester supports for signing the returned receipt.
       Although multiple values MAY be listed to indicate fallback
       options, only a single MIC algorithm is used in the returned MDN
       because the "Received-content-MIC" field conveys exactly one
       digest value.

       Recipients MUST select the first algorithm in the list that they
       also support and MUST compute the Received-content-MIC using that
       algorithm.  Senders SHOULD list the strongest algorithm first.
       Modern implementations SHOULD include only a single value unless
       multiple values are needed to support phased migration away from
       weaker algorithms.  Implementations MUST accept messages that
       contain multiple values and MUST ignore unsupported values.

       When a sender lists multiple algorithms, recipients MUST NOT fall
       back to an algorithm that is not explicitly listed by the sender.
       Trading partners typically pre-configure acceptable MIC
       algorithms through bilateral agreement, and runtime negotiation
       is not needed.  If none of the algorithms listed is supported,
       the recipient SHOULD reject the message and MAY return an
       unsigned MDN indicating "unsupported-mic-algorithm" rather than
       silently selecting a weaker algorithm.  When the header is absent
       (e.g., unsigned messages), an implementation MUST use a locally
       configured default algorithm; SHA-256 SHOULD be preferred, but
       SHA-1 MAY be used when required for legacy partners.

       *The following algorithm requirements apply to all
       implementations:*

       o Implementations *MUST* support SHA-256.

       o Implementations *SHOULD* support SHA-384 or stronger.

       o SHA-1 *MAY* be accepted only when required for interoperability
       with legacy partners and MUST NOT be generated for new
       deployments once both parties support stronger algorithms.

       o MD5 is obsolete and MUST NOT be generated.

       See Section 10 for additional algorithm requirements and
       deprecation timelines.

       Both the "signed-receipt-protocol" and the "signed-receipt-
       micalg" option parameters are REQUIRED when requesting a signed
       receipt.

       The lack of the presence of the "Receipt-Delivery-Option"
       indicates that a receipt is synchronous in nature.  The presence
       of the "Receipt-Delivery-Option: return-url" indicates that an
       asynchronous receipt is requested and SHOULD be sent to the
       "return-url".

   2.  The "importance" attribute of "Optional" is defined in RFC 3798,
       Section 2.2, and has the following meaning:

       Parameters with an importance of "Optional" permit a UA that does
       not understand the particular options parameter to still generate
       an MDN in response to a request for a MDN.

       A UA that does not understand the "signed-receipt-protocol"
       parameter or the "signed-receipt-micalg" will obviously not
       return a signed receipt.

       The importance of "Optional" is used for the signed receipt
       parameters because it is RECOMMENDED that an MDN be returned to
       the requesting trading partner even if the recipient could not
       sign it.

       The returned MDN will contain information on the disposition of
       the message and on why the MDN could not be signed.  See the
       Disposition field in Section 8.5 for more information.

       Within an EDI trading relationship, if a signed receipt is
       expected and is not returned, then the validity of the
       transaction is up to the trading partners to resolve.

       In general, if a signed receipt is required in the trading
       relationship and is not received, the transaction will likely be
       considered invalid.

8.3.1.  Signed Receipt Considerations

   The method used to request a receipt or a signed receipt is defined
   in RFC 3798, "An Extensible Message Format for Message Disposition
   Notifications".

   The "rules" are as follows:

   1.  When a receipt is requested, explicitly specifying that the
       receipt be signed, then the receipt MUST be returned with a
       signature.

   2.  When a receipt is requested, explicitly specifying that the
       receipt be signed, but the recipient cannot support either the
       requested protocol format or the requested MIC algorithms, then
       either a signed or unsigned receipt SHOULD be returned.

   3.  When a signature is not explicitly requested, or if the signed
       receipt request parameter is not recognized by the UA, then no
       receipt, an unsigned receipt, or a signed receipt MAY be returned
       by the recipient.

   NOTE: For Internet EDI, it is RECOMMENDED that when a signature is
   not explicitly requested, or if parameters are not recognized, the UA
   send back, at a minimum, an unsigned receipt.  If, however, a signed
   receipt was always returned as a policy, whether requested or not,
   then any false unsigned receipts can be repudiated.

   When a request for a signed receipt is made, but there is an error in
   processing the contents of the message, a signed receipt MUST still
   be returned.  The request for a signed receipt SHALL still be
   honored, though the transaction itself may not be valid.  The reason
   why the contents could not be processed MUST be set in the
   "disposition-field".

   When a signed receipt request is made, the "Received-content-MIC"
   MUST always be returned to the requester (except when corruption
   prevents computation of the digest in accordance with the following
   specification).  The "Received-content-MIC" MUST be calculated as
   follows:

   o  For any signed messages, the MIC to be returned is calculated
      on the RFC1767/RFC3023 MIME header and content.
      Canonicalization on the MIME headers MUST be performed before
      the MIC is calculated, since the sender requesting the signed
      receipt was also REQUIRED to canonicalize.

   o  For encrypted, unsigned messages, the MIC to be returned is
      calculated on the decrypted RFC 1767/RFC3023 MIME header and
      content. The content after decryption MUST be canonicalized
      before the MIC is calculated.

   o  For unsigned, unencrypted messages, the MIC MUST be calculated
      over the message contents without the outer MIME or any other RFC
      5322 headers, since these may sometimes be altered or reordered by
      intermediary user agents or proxies.

8.4.  MDN Format and Values

   This section defines the format of the AS2 Message Disposition
   Notification (AS2-MDN).

8.4.1.  AS2-MDN General Formats

   AS2-MDN = AS2-sync-MDN | AS2-async-http-MDN

   AS2-sync-MDN =
      Status-Line
      *(( general-header | response-header | entity-header )
        CRLF )
      CRLF
      AS2-MDN-body

   Status-Line =
      HTTP-Version SP Status-Code SP Reason-Phrase CRLF

   AS2-async-http-MDN =
      Request-Line
      *(( general-header | request-header | entity-header )
        CRLF )
      CRLF
      AS2-MDN-body

   Request-Line =
      Method SP Request-URI SP HTTP-Version CRLF

   AS2-MDN-body =
      AS2-signed-MDN-body | AS2-unsigned-MDN-body

8.4.2.  AS2-MDN Construction

   The AS2-MDN-body is formatted as a MIME multipart/report with a
   report-type of "disposition-notification".  When the message is
   unsigned, the transfer-layer ("outermost") entity-headers of the
   AS2-MDN contain the content-type header that specifies a content-type
   of "multipart/report" and parameters indicating the report-type, and
   the value of the outermost multipart boundary.

   When the AS2-MDN is signed, the transfer-layer ("outermost") entity-
   headers of the AS2-MDN contain a content-type header that specifies a
   content-type of "multipart/signed" and parameters indicating the
   algorithm used to compute the message digest, the signature-
   formatting protocol (e.g., pkcs7-signature), and the value of the
   outermost multipart boundary.  The first part of the MIME multipart/
   signed message is an embedded MIME multipart/report of type
   "disposition-notification".  The second part of the multipart/signed
   message contains a MIME application/pkcs7-signature message.

   The first part of the MIME multipart/report is a "human-readable"
   portion containing a general description of the message disposition.
   The second part of the MIME multipart/report is a "machine-readable"
   portion that is defined as:

   AS2-disposition-notification-content =
       reporting-ua-field CRLF
       mdn-gateway-field CRLF
       final-recipient-field CRLF
       original-message-id-field CRLF
       AS2-disposition-field CRLF
       *( failure-field CRLF )
       *( error-field CRLF )
       *( warning-field CRLF )
       *( extension-field CRLF )
       AS2-received-content-MIC-field CRLF

8.4.3.  AS2-MDN Fields

   The rules for constructing the AS2-disposition-notification content
   are identical to the disposition-notification-content rules provided
   in Section 7 of RFC 3798 [RFC3798], except that the RFC 3798
   disposition- field has been replaced with the AS2-disposition-field
   and that the AS2-received-content-MIC field has been added.  The
   differences between the RFC 3798 disposition-field and the AS2-
   disposition-field are described below.  Where there are differences
   between this document and RFC 3798, those entity names have been
   changed by pre-pending "AS2-".  Entities that do not differ from RFC
   3798 are not necessarily further defined in this document; refer to
   RFC 3798, Section 7, "Collected Grammar", for the original grammar.

   AS2-disposition-field =
       "Disposition" ":" disposition-mode ";"
       AS2-disposition-type "/" AS2-disposition-modifier

   disposition-mode =
       action-mode "/" sending-mode

   action-mode =
       "manual-action" | "automatic-action"

   sending-mode =
       "MDN-sent-manually" | "MDN-sent-automatically"

   AS2-disposition-type =
       "processed" | "failed"

   AS2-disposition-modifier =
       ( "error" | "warning" ) | AS2-disposition-modifier-extension

   AS2-disposition-modifier-extension =
       "error: authentication-failed" |
       "error: decompression-failed" |
       "error: decryption-failed" |
       "error: duplicate-filename" |
       "error: illegal-filename" |
       "error: insufficient-message-security" |
       "error: integrity-check-failed" |
       "error: invalid-message-id" |
       "error: unexpected-processing-error" |
       "error: unknown-trading-relationship" |
       "warning: " AS2-MDN-warning-description |
       "failure: " AS2-MDN-failure-description

   AS2-MDN-warning-description = *( TEXT )

   AS2-MDN-failure-description = *( TEXT )

   AS2-received-content-MIC-field =
       "Received-content-MIC" ":" encoded-message-digest ","
       digest-alg-id CRLF

   encoded-message-digest =
       1*( 'A'-'Z' | 'a'-'z' | '0'-'9' | '/' | '+' | '=' )
       ; i.e., base64(message-digest)

   digest-alg-id = "sha-256" | "sha-384" | "sha-512" | "sha-1" | "sha1"
                    ; The "sha1" is a legacy spelling of the "sha-1" defined hash in the IANA Textual Names Registry
                    ; It should be maintained for backwards compatibility
                    ; sha1 | sha-1 should only be used by legacy deployments that cannot support sha-256 or greater

   To improve error reporting and interoperability, this specification
   introduces additional standardized disposition modifiers beyond those
   defined in [RFC4130] and [RFC8098].

   These modifiers are used to indicate specific failure conditions that
   cannot be adequately represented by the existing error codes and may
   not be compatible with earlier implementations of AS2 Implementations
   MUST include a human-readable explanation in the MDN Explanation
   field when returning these modifiers.

   Future modifiers may be registered through the IANA registry for AS2
   Disposition Values and Modifiers (see Section 11).

   The "Received-content-MIC" extension field is set when the integrity
   of the received message is verified.  The MIC is the base64-encoded
   message-digest computed over the received message using a hash
   function.  This field is required for signed receipts but optional
   for unsigned receipts.  For details defining the specific content
   over which the message digest is to be computed, see Section 8.3.1 of
   this document.

   For signed messages, the algorithm used to calculate the MIC MUST be
   the same as that used on the message that was signed.  If the message
   is not signed, then the SHA-256 algorithm SHOULD be used.  SHA-1 MAY
   be used only for legacy interoperability (see Appendix B).  This
   field is set only when the contents of the message are processed
   successfully.  This field is used in conjunction with the recipient's
   signature on the MDN so that the sender can verify non-repudiation of
   receipt.

   AS2-MDN field names (e.g., "Disposition:", "Final-Recipient:") are
   case insensitive (cf. RFC 3798, Section 3.1.1).  AS2-MDN action-
   modes, sending-modes, AS2-disposition-types, and AS2-disposition-
   modifier values, which are defined above, and user-supplied *( TEXT )
   values are also case-insensitive.  AS2 implementations MUST NOT make
   assumptions regarding the values supplied for AS2-MDN-warning-
   description or AS2-MDN-failure-description, or for the values of any
   (optional) error, warning, or failure fields.

8.4.4.  AS2-MDN Field Requirements

   The following fields have clarified requirements for
   interoperability:

   o *Final-Recipient* — This field *MUST* always be present in an MDN
   and MUST identify the AS2-To value of the original message.

   o *Original-Message-ID* — This field is *REQUIRED* and MUST exactly
   match the Message-ID of the original message as transmitted.
   Message-ID in the MDN itself is optional.

   o *Disposition-Notification-To* — Implementations *MAY* include this
   field using an email address, URL, hostname, or other identifier as
   appropriate to the system.  However, as specified in [RFC4130],
   receiving applications *MUST* ignore this field and *MUST NOT* reject
   a message due to syntax or address format violations.  The field is
   retained for compatibility with prior implementations.

8.4.5.  Additional AS2-MDN Programming Notes

   o For HTTP transactions, Original-Recipient and Final-Recipient
   SHOULD not be different.  The value in Original-Message-ID SHOULD
   match the original Message-ID header value.

   o Refer to RFC 3798 for the formatting of the MDN, except for the
   specific deviations mentioned above.

   o Refer to RFC 3462 and RFC 3798 for the formatting of the content-
   type entity-headers for the MDN.

   o Use an action-mode of "automatic-action" when the disposition
   described by the disposition type was a result of an automatic action
   rather than that of an explicit instruction by the user for this
   message.

   o Use an action-mode of "manual-action" when the disposition
   described by the disposition type was a result of an explicit
   instruction by the user rather than some sort of automatically
   performed action.

   o Use a sending-mode of "MDN-sent-automatically" when the MDN is sent
   because the UA had previously been configured to do so.

   o Use a sending-mode of "MDN-sent-manually" when the user explicitly
   gave permission for this particular MDN to be sent.

   o The sending-mode "MDN-sent-manually" is meaningful ONLY with
   "manual-action", not with "automatic-action".

   o The "failed" disposition type MUST NOT be used for the situation in
   which there is some problem in processing the message other than
   interpreting the request for an MDN.  The "processed" or other
   disposition type with appropriate disposition modifiers is to be used
   in such situations.

8.5.  Disposition Mode, Type, and Modifier

8.5.1.  Disposition Mode Overview

   This section provides a brief overview of how "processed", "error",
   "failure", and "warning" are used.

8.5.2.  Successful Processing Status Indication

   When the request for a receipt or signed receipt, and the received
   message contents are successfully processed by the receiving EDI UA,
   a receipt or MDN SHOULD be returned with the disposition-type set to
   "processed".  When the MDN is sent automatically by the EDI UA, and
   there is no explicit way for a user to control the sending of the
   MDN, then the first part of the "disposition-mode" SHOULD be set to
   "automatic-action".  When the MDN is being sent under user-
   configurable control, then the first part of the "disposition-mode"
   SHOULD be set to "manual-action".  Since a request for a signed
   receipt should always be honored, the user MUST not be allowed to
   configure the UA to disallow sending of a signed receipt when the
   sender requests one.

   The second part of the disposition-mode is set to "MDN-sent-manually"
   if the user gave explicit permission for the MDN to be sent.  Again,
   the user MUST not be allowed to explicitly refuse to send a signed
   receipt when the sender requests one.  The second part of the
   "disposition-mode" is set to "MDN-sent-automatically" whenever the
   EDI UA sends the MDN automatically, regardless of whether the sending
   was under the control of a user, administrator, or the software.

   Because EDI content is generally handled automatically by the EDI UA,
   a request for a receipt or signed receipt will generally return the
   following in the "disposition-field":

      Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed

   Note that this specification does not restrict the use of the
   "disposition-mode" just to automatic actions.  Manual actions are
   valid as long as it is kept in mind that a request for a signed
   receipt MUST be honored.

8.5.3.  Unsuccessful Processed Content

   The request for a signed receipt requires the use of two
   "disposition-notification-options", which specify the protocol format
   of the returned signed receipt, and the MIC algorithm used to
   calculate the MIC over the message content.  The "disposition-field"
   values that should be used if the message content is being rejected
   or ignored (for instance, if the EDI UA determines that a signed
   receipt cannot be returned because it does not support the requested
   protocol format, the EDI UA chooses not to process the message
   contents itself) MUST be specified in the MDN "disposition-field" as
   follows:

    Disposition: "disposition-mode";  failed/Failure: unsupported format

   The "failed" AS2-disposition-type MUST be used when a failure occurs
   that prevents the proper generation of an MDN.  For example, this
   disposition-type would apply if the sender of the message requested
   the application of an unsupported message-integrity-check (MIC)
   algorithm.

   The "failure:" AS2-disposition-modifier-extension SHOULD be used with
   an implementation-defined description of the failure.  Further
   information about the failure may be contained in a failure-field.

   The syntax of the "failed" disposition-type is general, allowing the
   sending of any textual information along with the "failed"
   disposition-type.  Implementations MUST support any printable textual
   characters after the Failure disposition-type.  For use in Internet
   EDI, the following "failed" values are pre-defined and MUST be
   supported:

      "Failure: unsupported format"
      "Failure: unsupported MIC-algorithms"

8.5.4.  Unsuccessful Non-Content Processing

   When errors occur in processing the received message (other than
   content), the "disposition-field" MUST be set to the "processed"
   value for disposition-type and the "error" value for disposition-
   modifier.

   The "error" AS2-disposition-modifier with the "processed"
   disposition-type MUST be used to indicate that an error of some sort
   occurred that prevented successful processing of the message.
   Further information may be contained in an error-field.

   An "error:" AS2-disposition-modifier-extension SHOULD be used to
   combine the indication of an error with a predefined description of a
   specific, well-known error.  Further information about the error may
   be contained in an error field.

   For internet EDI use, the following "error" AS2-disposition-modifier
   values are defined:

      o "Error: authentication-failed"         - the receiver could not
                                                 authenticate the sender.

      o "Error: decompression-failed"          - the receiver could not
                                                 decompress the message
                                                 contents.

      o "Error: decryption-failed"             - the receiver could not
                                                 decrypt the message
                                                 contents.
      o "Error: duplicate-filename"            - the message payload contained
                                                 a filename already received
                                                 by the backend server.

      o "Error: illegal-filename"              - the message payload contained
                                                 a filename that could nor be
                                                 processed by the backend server.

      o "Error: insufficient-message-security" - the content of the message
                                                 was not appropriately enveloped
                                                 according to the agreed-upon
                                                 message security.

      o "Error: integrity-check-failed"        - the receiver could not
                                                 verify content integrity.

      o "Error: invalid-message-id"            - the receiver could not
                                                 parse the value of the
                                                 Message-ID header because it
                                                 was not syntactically correct.

      o "Error: unexpected-processing-error"   - a catch-all for any
                                                 additional processing
                                                 errors.

      o "Error: unknown-trading-relationship"   - the receiver could not
                                                 correlate the AS2-To/AS2-From
                                                 header values to values known
                                                 to the system.

   An example of how the "disposition-field" would look when errors
   other than those in content processing are detected is as follows:

     Disposition: "disposition-mode"; processed/Error: decryption-failed

8.5.5.  Processing Warnings

   Situations arise in EDI when, even if a trading partner cannot be
   authenticated correctly, the trading partners still agree to continue
   processing the EDI transactions.  Transaction reconciliation is done
   between the trading partners at a later time.  In the content
   processing warning situations as described above, the "disposition-
   field" MUST be set to the "processed" disposition-type value, and the
   "warning" to the "disposition-modifier" value.

   The "warning" AS2-disposition-modifier MUST be used with the
   "processed" disposition-type to indicate that the message was
   successfully processed but that an exceptional condition occurred.
   Further information may be contained in a warning-field.

   A "warning:" AS2-disposition-modifier-extension SHOULD be used to
   combine the indication of a warning with an implementation-defined
   description of the warning.  Further information about the warning
   may be contained in a warning-field.

   For use in Internet EDI, the following "warning" disposition-
   modifier-extension value is defined:

      "Warning: authentication-failed, processing continued"

   An example of how the "disposition-field" would look when warning
   other than those for content processing are detected is as follows:

   Example:

      Disposition: "disposition-mode"; processed/Warning:
        authentication-failed, processing continued

8.5.6.  Backward Compatibility with Disposition Type, Modifier, and
        Extension

   The following set of examples represents typical constructions of the
   Disposition field that have been in use by AS2 implementations.  This
   is NOT an exhaustive list of possible constructions.  However, AS2
   implementations MUST accept constructions of this type to be backward
   compatible with earlier AS2 versions.

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically;
     processed/error: authentication-failed

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically;
     processed/warning: duplicate-document

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically;
     failed/failure: sender-equals-receiver

   The following set of examples represents allowable constructions of
   the Disposition field that combine the historic constructions above
   with optional RFC 3798 error, warning, and failure fields.  AS2
   implementations MAY produce these constructions.  However, AS2
   servers are not required to recognize or process optional error,
   warning, or failure fields at this time.  Note that the use of the
   multiple error fields in the second example below provides for the
   indication of multiple error conditions.

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically;
       processed/error: decryption-failed
     Error: The signature did not decrypt into a valid PKCS#1
       Type-2 block.
     Error: The length of the decrypted key does not equal the
       octet length of the modulus.

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically;
       processed/warning: duplicate-document
     Warning: An identical message already exists at the
       destination server.

     Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically;
       failed/failure: sender-equals-receiver
     Failure: The AS2-To name is identical to the AS2-From name.

   The following set of examples represents allowable constructions of
   the Disposition field that employ pure RFC 3798 Disposition-modifiers
   with optional error, warning, and failure fields.  These examples are
   provided as informational only.  These constructions are not
   guaranteed to be backward compatible with AS2 implementations prior
   to version 1.1.

  Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed

  Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed/error
  Error: authentication-failed
  Error: The signature did not decrypt into a valid PKCS#1 Type-2 block.
  Error: The length of the decrypted key does not equal the octet length of the modulus.

  Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed/warning
  Warning: duplicate-document

  Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; failed
  Failure: sender-equals-receiver

8.6.  Receipt Reply Considerations in an HTTP POST

   The details of the response to the POST command vary depending upon
   whether a receipt has been requested.

   With no extended header requesting a receipt, and with no errors
   accessing the request-URI specified processing, the status line in
   the Response to the POST request SHOULD be in the 200 range.  Status
   codes in the 200 range SHOULD also be used when an entity is returned
   (a signed receipt in a multipart/signed content type or an unsigned
   receipt in a multipart/report).  Even when the disposition of the
   data was an error condition at the authentication, decryption or
   other higher level, the HTTP status code SHOULD indicate success at
   the HTTP level.

   The HTTP server application may respond with an unsolicited
   multipart/report as a message body that the HTTP client might not
   have solicited, but the client may discard this.  Applications SHOULD
   avoid emitting unsolicited receipt replies because bandwidth or
   processing limitations might have led administrators to suspend
   asking for acknowledgements.

   Message Disposition Notifications, when used in the HTTP reply
   context, follow the same semantics as those defined in [RFC3798].
   For example, the disposition field is a required element in the
   machine-readable second part of a multipart/report for a MDN.  The
   final-recipient- field ([RFC3798], Section 3.1) value SHOULD be
   derived from the entity headers of the request.

   In an MDN, the first part of the multipart/report (the human-readable
   portion) SHOULD include items such as the subject, the date, and
   other information when those fields are present in entity header
   fields following the POST request.  An application MUST report the
   Message- ID of the request in the second part of the multipart/report
   (the machine-readable portion).  Also, an MDN SHOULD have its own
   unique Message-ID HTTP header.  The HTTP reply SHOULD normally omit
   the third optional part of the multipart/report (this was
   historically used to return the original message or its headers
   within the SMTP context).

9.  Public Key Certificate Handling

   The initial exchange and certification of public keys are essential
   steps in establishing a secure trading partnership.  This process MAY
   occur manually during partner onboarding or automatically through
   supported mechanisms such as the *AS2 GET* method (see Section 9.2).
   Implementations MUST maintain a database of public keys used for
   encryption and signature verification, together with the mapping
   between the EDI trading partner identifier and its associated RFC
   5322 [RFC5322] email address and HTTP URL/URI.  The exact procedures
   for establishing and configuring secure AS2 messaging can vary among
   trading partners and software implementations.

   X.509 certificates are REQUIRED.  It is RECOMMENDED that trading
   partners self-certify each other if an agreed-upon certification
   authority is not used.  This applicability statement does NOT require
   the use of a certification authority (CA) and the use of a CA is
   therefore OPTIONAL.  Certificates MAY be self-signed.

   It is RECOMMENDED that when trading partners are using S/MIME they
   also exchange public key certificates, considering the advice
   provided in [RFC3850].

   The message formats useful for certificate exchange are found in
   [RFC3851] and [RFC3852].

9.1.  Certificate Roles and Requirements

   While TLS certificates and AS2 message-signing certificates both use
   the X.509 standard, they serve distinct purposes and MUST be managed
   separately:

   *  *TLS Certificates* are used solely to secure the HTTPS transport
      channel.  They establish session-level confidentiality and
      integrity and SHOULD be issued by a trusted certification
      authority (CA) in production environments.  Self-signed TLS
      certificates MAY be used for testing or by explicit agreement
      between trading partners, provided they include a *Subject
      Alternative Name (SAN)* extension containing the hostname and/or
      IP address.  The SAN extension MUST be marked as non-critical.

   *  *AS2 Certificates* are used for signing and encrypting AS2
      messages and SHOULD NOT be the same as the TLS certificate.
      Separation ensures that a compromise of the transport layer does
      not affect message-level security.  AS2 certificates MAY be CA-
      issued or self-signed, depending on organizational policy and
      trading-partner agreements.

   AS2 certificates MUST use a key length of at least *2048 bits for RSA
   keys*.  For elliptic-curve certificates, the selected curve MUST
   provide equivalent or stronger security (e.g., P-256 or higher).

   Although short certificate lifetimes are now common in the TLS
   ecosystem due to CA/Browser Forum requirements and industry
   regulations, AS2 certificates generally do not require the same
   frequency of renewal.  AS2 systems handle far fewer encrypted
   transactions than high-volume web servers, and certificate rollover
   can be operationally complex.  Implementations SHOULD allow
   independent lifetime policies for AS2 and TLS certificates.

9.2.  Certificate Exchange and Renewal

   Automated certificate management significantly reduces operational
   risk.  Implementations SHOULD support *Certificate Exchange Messaging
   (CEM)* [RFC6017] to enable secure, automated exchange of AS2
   certificates between trading partners.  When CEM is not available,
   manual exchange processes MUST ensure integrity and authentication of
   keys prior to activation.

   The *AS2 GET* method MAY be used for initial retrieval of partner
   certificates if protected by appropriate authentication (for example,
   Basic Authentication).  Implementations using AS2 GET MUST ensure
   that certificate delivery is integrity-protected and that access is
   restricted to authorized partners.

9.3.  Operational Guidance

   *  TLS and AS2 certificates MUST be managed separately.

   *  CEM SHOULD be supported to reduce manual errors and configuration
      drift.

   *  Self-signed certificates SHOULD include SAN extensions for clarity
      and validation consistency.

   *  Implementations SHOULD support configurable expiration and
      notification mechanisms for certificate renewal.

   *  Administrators SHOULD avoid reusing TLS certificates as AS2
      certificates, even when technically possible.

   For security and algorithm lifecycle considerations, see Section 7
   (Section 7) and Section 10 (Section 10).

10.  Security Considerations

   This entire document is concerned with secure transport of business
   data, covering confidentiality, authentication, and non-repudiation.

   Cryptographic algorithms used for signatures, MIC calculations, and
   encryption are subject to modernization and deprecation guidance.
   The definitive algorithm requirements (for hash functions and
   encryption) are specified in Section 7.  This section provides
   security rationale and additional guidance.

   Legacy algorithms such as SHA-1, MD5, 3DES, and RC2 are deprecated
   due to known weaknesses.  Implementations MUST NOT generate these
   algorithms in new deployments.  However, legacy use cases may still
   be encountered when interoperating with older systems conforming to
   [RFC4130].  See Appendix B for clarifications on legacy
   interoperability.

   Modern implementations are expected to support strong algorithms such
   as SHA-256 or stronger for MIC calculations, and AES (128-bit or
   greater) for encryption.  Implementations SHOULD also support
   advanced AES modes such as AES-GCM and AES-CCM for improved
   efficiency and authenticated encryption.  See [RFC8551] for details.

   Implementations must ensure robust handling of all cryptographic
   failures.  Administrators are encouraged to monitor IETF and NIST
   publications for algorithm lifecycle updates and to update deployed
   systems accordingly.  These compatibility allowances are described in
   more detail in Section 1.2 and Appendix B.

   When processing certificates, failures such as expired, revoked, or
   untrusted certificates MUST result in immediate and noticeable error
   reporting.  See [RFC3280] and [RFC8551] for guidance on certificate
   path validation.  For guidance on certificate management, key
   exchange, and renewal, including use of Certificate Exchange
   Messaging (CEM) and AS2 GET, see Section 9 (Section 9).

10.1.  HTTPS and TLS Requirements

   *Consensus Update:* Implementations *MUST* support TLS 1.2 or higher
   and *SHOULD* support TLS 1.3.  TLS 1.3 is strongly encouraged as the
   default where platform support allows, but TLS 1.2 remains the
   mandatory baseline to ensure interoperability with older environments
   (e.g., legacy JVMs).  Products SHOULD allow administrators to
   configure which TLS versions are enabled, so that TLS 1.3 can be
   mandated by policy where required.  Future revisions of this
   specification are expected to mandate TLS 1.3 as the minimum required
   version once deployment is widespread.

   Administrators SHOULD use only cipher suites listed as “Recommended
   (Y)” in the IANA TLS Parameters (https://www.iana.org/assignments/
   tls-parameters) registry.  Implementations SHOULD provide
   configurable cipher selection rather than hardcoding cipher lists.

   New implementations of AS2 *SHOULD* use HTTPS as the default
   transport protocol to provide confidentiality and integrity in
   transit.  Plain HTTP remains permitted to support message-level
   encryption and backward compatibility with existing deployments.

   This guidance promotes strong encryption, aligns with current best
   practices, and ensures that AS2 remains interoperable with existing
   deployments while allowing administrators to phase out weaker
   protocols and cipher suites over time.

   *Future Considerations* Per BCP 195/RFC 7525bis, new IETF protocols
   and major revisions are expected to mandate TLS 1.3.  AS2-bis is a
   backward-compatible revision, and therefore specifies MUST support of
   TLS 1.2 and SHOULD support of TLS 1.3 to preserve interoperability
   with existing implementations.  At the same time, implementers are
   strongly encouraged to deploy TLS 1.3 as the default for all new
   products and configurations.  Future versions of AS2 (for example, a
   potential AS2-Version 1.3 or subsequent update) are expected to raise
   the baseline to MUST support TLS 1.3 or higher, and may deprecate TLS
   1.2 once widespread deployment makes this feasible.  Implementers are
   encouraged to prepare for a future revision of this specification
   that will mandate TLS 1.3 as the minimum required version.

10.2.  TLS Server Certificates

   The following certificate types MUST be supported for TLS server
   certificates:

     o  with URL in the Distinguished Name Common Name attribute

     o  without URL in the Distinguished Name Common Name attribute

     o  self-signed (self-issued)

     o  issued by a certification authority (CA)

   The URL, which matches the source server identity, SHOULD be carried
   in the certificate.  However, it is not required that DNS checks or
   reverse lookups to vouch for the accuracy of the URL or server value.

   The complete certification chain MUST be included in all
   certificates.  All certificate verifications MUST "chain to root" or
   to an accepted trust anchor.  Additionally, the certificate hash
   SHOULD match the hash recomputed by the receiver.

   Because server certificates are exchanged, and also trust is
   established during the configuration of the trading partner
   relationship, runtime validation (including hostname matching and
   certificate path validation) SHOULD be performed unless an out-of-
   band trust model has been explicitly agreed upon by trading partners.
   If a self-signed TLS certificate is used, it SHOULD contain a Subject
   Alternative Name (SAN) extension that includes the hostname and/or IP
   address of the sender.  If included, this certificate extension MUST
   be marked as non-critical.

   *Note:* Although not restricted by this specification, self-signed
   TLS certificates should be used with great care, especially in
   production environments.

10.3.  NRR Cautions

   This specification seeks to provide multiple mechanisms that can be
   combined in accordance with local policies to achieve a wide range of
   security needs as determined by threat and risk analyses of the
   business peers.  It is required that all these mechanisms be
   implemented by AS2 software so that the software has capabilities
   that promote strong interoperability, no matter what policies are
   adopted.

   One strong cluster of mechanisms (the secure transmission loop) can
   provide good support for meeting the evidentiary needs of non-
   repudiation of receipt by the original sender and by a third party
   supplied with all stated evidence.  However, this specification does
   not itself define non-repudiation of receipt nor enumerate its
   essential properties because NRR is a business analysis and/or legal
   requirement, and not relevantly defined by a technical applicability
   statement.

   Some analyses observe that non-repudiation of receipt presupposes
   that non-repudiation of the sender of the original message is
   obtained, and further that non-repudiation should be implemented by
   means of digital signature on the original message.  To satisfy
   strict NRR evidence, authentication and integrity MUST be provided by
   some mechanism, and the RECOMMENDED mechanism is digital signatures
   on both the original message and the receipt message.

   Given that this specification has selected several mechanisms that
   can be combined in several ways, it is important to realize that if a
   digital signature is omitted from the original message, in order to
   satisfy the preceding analysis of NRR requirements, some
   authentication mechanism MUST accompany the request for a signed
   receipt and its included Received-content-MIC value.  This
   authentication might come from using client-side SSL, authentication
   via IPsec, or HTTP authentication (while using SSL).  In any case,
   records of the message content, its security basis, and the digest
   value need to be retained for the NRR process.

   Therefore, if NRR is one of the goals of the policy that is adopted,
   by using the mechanisms of the secure transmission loop mentioned
   above and by retaining appropriate records of authentication at the
   original message sender site, strong evidentiary requirements
   proposed for NRR can be fulfilled.

   Other ways of proceeding may fall short of fulfilling the most
   stringent sets of evidence required for NRR to obtain, but may
   nevertheless be part of a commercial trading agreement and, as such,
   are good enough for the parties involved.  However, if MDNs are
   returned unsigned, evidentiary requirements for NRR are weak; some
   authentication of the identity of the receiver is needed.

   If TLS is used for transport, the guidance in Section 10.1 applies.

10.4.  Replay Remark

   Because business data documents normally contain transaction ids,
   replays (such as resends of not-yet-acknowledged messages) are
   discarded as part of the normal process of duplicate detection.
   Detection of duplicates by Message-Id or by business transaction
   identifiers is recommended.

11.  IANA Considerations

   IANA is requested to update the following registries:

   o MDN Disposition Modifier Names
   https://www.iana.org/assignments/mdn/mdn.xhtml#disposition-modifier

   o Message Disposition Notification Parameters
   https://www.iana.org/assignments/mdn/mdn.xhtml#parameters

11.1.  Registration

   RFC 4130 originally defined an extension to the Message Disposition
   Notification (MDN) protocol for a disposition-modifier in the
   Disposition field of a body of content-type "message/disposition-
   notification".

   This document updates that definition, and IANA is requested to
   replace RFC 4130 with this document as the reference for the MDN
   Disposition Modifier Names registry.

11.1.1.  Disposition Modifier 'warning'

      Parameter-name:  warning
      Semantics: See [Section 8.4.3](#as2-mdn-fields){:format="none"} and
      [Section 8.5.5](#processing-warnings){:format="none"} in this document.

12.  Acknowledgments

   Carl Hage, Karen Rosenfeld, Chuck Fenton, and many others provided
   valuable suggestions during the initial review of RFC 4130 that
   improved that applicability statement and this bis specification.
   The authors would also like to thank the past and current vendors who
   have participated in the Drummond AS2 interoperability testing.
   Their contributions have ultimately led to great improvement in the
   clarity of this document.

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

   [RFC1767]  Crocker, D., "MIME Encapsulation of EDI Objects",
              RFC 1767, DOI 10.17487/RFC1767, March 1995,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1767>.

   [RFC1847]  Galvin, J., Murphy, S., Crocker, S., and N. Freed,
              "Security Multiparts for MIME: Multipart/Signed and
              Multipart/Encrypted", RFC 1847, DOI 10.17487/RFC1847,
              October 1995, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1847>.

   [RFC2026]  Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision
              3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, DOI 10.17487/RFC2026, October 1996,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2026>.

   [RFC2045]  Freed, N. and N. Borenstein, "Multipurpose Internet Mail
              Extensions (MIME) Part One: Format of Internet Message
              Bodies", RFC 2045, DOI 10.17487/RFC2045, November 1996,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2045>.

   [RFC2046]  Freed, N. and N. Borenstein, "Multipurpose Internet Mail
              Extensions (MIME) Part Two: Media Types", RFC 2046,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2046, November 1996,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2046>.

   [RFC2049]  Freed, N. and N. Borenstein, "Multipurpose Internet Mail
              Extensions (MIME) Part Five: Conformance Criteria and
              Examples", RFC 2049, DOI 10.17487/RFC2049, November 1996,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2049>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC2234]  Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell, "Augmented BNF for Syntax
              Specifications: ABNF", RFC 2234, DOI 10.17487/RFC2234,
              November 1997, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2234>.

   [RFC2616]  Fielding, R., Gettys, J., Mogul, J., Frystyk, H.,
              Masinter, L., Leach, P., and T. Berners-Lee, "Hypertext
              Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1", RFC 2616,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2616, June 1999,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2616>.

   [RFC3023]  Murata, M., St. Laurent, S., and D. Kohn, "XML Media
              Types", RFC 3023, DOI 10.17487/RFC3023, January 2001,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3023>.

   [RFC3274]  Gutmann, P., "Compressed Data Content Type for
              Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)", RFC 3274,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC3274, June 2002,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3274>.

   [RFC3280]  Housley, R., Polk, W., Ford, W., and D. Solo, "Internet
              X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
              Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile", RFC 3280,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC3280, April 2002,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3280>.

   [RFC3335]  Harding, T., Drummond, R., and C. Shih, "MIME-based Secure
              Peer-to-Peer Business Data Interchange over the Internet",
              RFC 3335, DOI 10.17487/RFC3335, September 2002,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3335>.

   [RFC3462]  Vaudreuil, G., "The Multipart/Report Content Type for the
              Reporting of Mail System Administrative Messages",
              RFC 3462, DOI 10.17487/RFC3462, January 2003,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3462>.

   [RFC3798]  Hansen, T., Ed. and G. Vaudreuil, Ed., "Message
              Disposition Notification", RFC 3798, DOI 10.17487/RFC3798,
              May 2004, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3798>.

   [RFC3850]  Ramsdell, B., Ed., "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail
              Extensions (S/MIME) Version 3.1 Certificate Handling",
              RFC 3850, DOI 10.17487/RFC3850, July 2004,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3850>.

   [RFC3851]  Ramsdell, B., Ed., "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail
              Extensions (S/MIME) Version 3.1 Message Specification",
              RFC 3851, DOI 10.17487/RFC3851, July 2004,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3851>.

   [RFC3852]  Housley, R., "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)",
              RFC 3852, DOI 10.17487/RFC3852, July 2004,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3852>.

   [RFC4130]  Moberg, D. and R. Drummond, "MIME-Based Secure Peer-to-
              Peer Business Data Interchange Using HTTP, Applicability
              Statement 2 (AS2)", RFC 4130, DOI 10.17487/RFC4130, July
              2005, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4130>.

   [RFC5322]  Resnick, P., Ed., "Internet Message Format", RFC 5322,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5322, October 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5322>.

   [RFC6017]  Meadors, K., Ed., "Electronic Data Interchange - Internet
              Integration (EDIINT) Features Header Field", RFC 6017,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6017, September 2010,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6017>.

   [RFC8098]  Hansen, T., Ed. and A. Melnikov, Ed., "Message Disposition
              Notification", STD 85, RFC 8098, DOI 10.17487/RFC8098,
              February 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8098>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8551]  Schaad, J., Ramsdell, B., and S. Turner, "Secure/
              Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0
              Message Specification", RFC 8551, DOI 10.17487/RFC8551,
              April 2019, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8551>.

13.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.draft-duker-as2-reliability-16]
              Duker, J. and dale.moberg@gmail.com, "Operational
              Reliability for EDIINT AS2", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-duker-as2-reliability-16, 21 October 2014,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-duker-as2-
              reliability-16>.

   [I-D.draft-harding-as2-restart-02]
              Harding, T., "AS2 Restart for Very Large Messages", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-harding-as2-restart-02,
              26 January 2011, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-harding-as2-restart-02>.

   [RFC2246]  Dierks, T. and C. Allen, "The TLS Protocol Version 1.0",
              RFC 2246, DOI 10.17487/RFC2246, January 1999,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2246>.

   [RFC4918]  Dusseault, L., Ed., "HTTP Extensions for Web Distributed
              Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV)", RFC 4918,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC4918, June 2007,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4918>.

Appendix A.  Message Examples

   Note to Readers: All examples are provided for illustration only, and
   are not part of the protocol specification.  If an example conflicts
   with the protocol definitions, the example is wrong.  Email addresses
   in the examples (e.g., in the Disposition-Notification-To field)
   reflect one valid option but are not required.  In AS2, this field
   may also contain a URL, a fully qualified host name, an AS2
   identifier, or another implementation-specific string, as described
   in Section 8.3.

A.1.  Signed Message Requesting a Signed, Synchronous Receipt

      POST /receive HTTP/1.1
      Host: 10.234.160.12:80
      User-Agent: AS2 Company Server
      Date: Wed, 31 Jul 2025 13:34:50 GMT
      AS2-Version: 1.3
      AS2-From: "as2 Name"
      AS2-To: 0123456780000
      Subject: Test Case
      Message-Id: <200207310834482A70BF63@\"~~foo~~\">
      Disposition-Notification-To: mrAS2@example.com
      Disposition-Notification-Options: signed-receipt-protocol=optional,
           pkcs7-signature; signed-receipt-micalg=optional,sha-256
      Content-Type: multipart/signed; boundary="as2BouNdary1as2";
           protocol="application/pkcs7-signature"; micalg=sha-256
      Content-Length: 2464

      --as2BouNdary1as2
      Content-Type: application/edi-x12
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=rfc1767.dat

        {ISA ...EDI transaction data...IEA...}

      --as2BouNdary1as2
      Content-Type: application/pkcs7-signature

        {omitted binary pkcs7 signature data}

      --as2BouNdary1as2--

A.2.  MDN for Message in A.1, Above

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      AS2-From: 0123456780000
      AS2-To: "as2 Name"
      AS2-Version: 1.3
      Message-ID: <709700825.1028122454671.JavaMail@ediXchange>
      Content-Type: multipart/signed; micalg=sha-256;
           protocol="application/pkcs7-signature";
           boundary="----=_Part_57_648441049.1028122454671"
      Connection: Close
      Content-Length: 1980

      ------=_Part_57_648441049.1028122454671

      & Content-Type: multipart/report;
      &    report-type=disposition-notification;
      &    boundary="----=_Part_56_1672293592.1028122454656"
      &
      &------=_Part_56_1672293592.1028122454656
      &Content-Type: text/plain
      &Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
      &
      &MDN for -
      & Message ID: <200207310834482A70BF63@\"~~foo~~\">
      &  From: "as2 Name"
      &  To: 0123456780000
      &  Received on: 2025-07-31 at 09:34:14 (EDT)
      & Status: processed
      & Comment: This is not a guarantee that the message has
      &  been completely processed or &understood by the receiving
      &  translator
      &
      &------=_Part_56_1672293592.1028122454656
      &Content-Type: message/disposition-notification
      &Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
      &
      &Reporting-UA: AS2 Server
      &Original-Recipient: rfc822; 0123456780000
      &Final-Recipient: rfc822; 0123456780000
      &Original-Message-ID: <200207310834482A70BF63@\"~~foo~~\">
      &Received-content-MIC: 43d9tGY3gNSGuFaut4PAGvuc+48VgW6USgXLDPTxsBU=, sha-256
      &Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed
      &
      &------=_Part_56_1672293592.1028122454656--

      ------=_Part_57_648441049.1028122454671
      Content-Type: application/pkcs7-signature; name=smime.p7s
      Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=smime.p7s

      MIAGCSqGSIb3DQEHAqCAMIACAQExCzAJBgUrDgMCGgUAMIAGCSqGSIb3DQ
      cp24hMJNbxDKHnlB9jTiQzLwSwo+/90Pc87x+Sc6EpFSUYWGAAAAAAAA
      ------=_Part_57_648441049.1028122454671--

      Notes:

      1. The lines proceeded with "&" are what the signature is calculated
         over.

      2. For details on how to prepare the multipart/signed with protocol =
         "application/pkcs7-signature", see the "S/MIME Message
         Specification, PKCS Security Services for MIME".

      3. Note that the textual first body part of the multipart/report can
         be used to include a more detailed explanation of the error
         conditions reported by the disposition headers. The first body
         part of the multipart/report, when used in this way, allows a
         person to better diagnose a problem in detail.

      4. As specified by RFC 3462 [RFC3462], returning the original or portions
         of the original message in the third body part of the
         multipart/report is not required.  This is an optional body part.
         However, it is RECOMMENDED that this body part be omitted or left
         blank.

A.3.  Signed, Encrypted Message Requesting a Signed, Asynchronous
      Receipt

      POST /trading_partner HTTP/1.1
      Host: 10.240.1.2:58101
      User-Agent: AS2 Company Server
      Message-ID: <#as2_company#01#a4260as2_companyout#>
      Date: Thu, 19 Dec 2024 15:04:18 GMT
      Subject: Signed and encrypted message with async MDN request
      Mime-Version: 1.0
      Content-Type: application/pkcs7-mime;
          smime-type=enveloped-data; name=smime.p7m
      Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=smime.p7m
      Recipient-Address: 10.240.1.2//
      Disposition-Notification-To: http://10.240.1.2:58201/exchange/as2_company
      Disposition-Notification-Options: signed-receipt-protocol=optional,
           pkcs7-signature; signed-receipt-micalg=optional,sha-256
      Receipt-Delivery-Option: http://10.240.1.2:58201/exchange/as2_company
      AS2-From: as2_company
      AS2-To: "AS2 Test"
      AS2-Version: 1.3
      Connection: close
      Content-Length: 3428

        {omitted binary encrypted data}

A.4.  Asynchronous MDN for Message in A.3, Above

      POST / HTTP/1.1
      Host: 10.234.160.12:80
      Connection: close, TE
      TE: trailers, deflate, gzip, compress
      User-Agent: AS2 Company Server
      Date: Thu, 19 Dec 2024 15:05:38 GMT
      Message-ID: <AS2-20021219_030338@as2_company.dgi_th>
      AS2-Version: 1.3
      Mime-Version: 1.0
      Recipient-Address: http://10.240.1.2:58201/exchange/as2_company
      AS2-To: as2_company
      AS2-From: "AS2 Test"
      Subject: Your Requested MDN Response
      From: as2debug@example.com
      Accept-Encoding: deflate, gzip, x-gzip, compress, x-compress
      Content-Type: multipart/signed; micalg=sha-256;
           protocol="application/pkcs7-signature";
           boundary="----=_Part_337_6452266.1040310218750"
      Content-Length: 3103

      ------=_Part_337_6452266.1040310218750
      Content-Type: multipart/report;
           report-type=disposition-notification;
           boundary="----=_Part_336_6069110.1040310218718"

      ------=_Part_336_6069110.1040310218718
      Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
      Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

      The message <x12.edi> sent to Recipient <AS2 Test> on Thu, 19 Dec
      2024 15:04:18 GMT with Subject <Signed and encrypted message with async
      MDN request> has been received. The EDI Interchange was successfully
      decrypted, and its integrity was verified. In addition, the sender of
      the message, Sender <as2_company> at Location http://10.240.1.2:58201/exchange/as2_company
      was authenticated as the originator of the message. There is no
      guarantee, however, that the EDI interchange was syntactically
      correct, or that it was received by the EDI application/translator.

      ------=_Part_336_6069110.1040310218718
      Content-Type: message/disposition-notification
      Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

      Reporting-UA: AS2@test:8101
      Original-Recipient: rfc822; "AS2 Test"
      Final-Recipient: rfc822; "AS2 Test"
      Original-Message-ID: <#as2_company#01#a4260as2_companyout#>
      Disposition: automatic-action/MDN-sent-automatically; processed
      Received-Content-MIC: Hes6my+vIxIYxmvsA+MNpEOTPAc=, sha1

      ------=_Part_336_6069110.1040310218718--

      ------=_Part_337_6452266.1040310218750
      Content-Type: application/pkcs7-signature; name=smime.p7s
      Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=smime.p7s

      BhbWjEfbyXoTAS/H0zpnEqLqbaBh29y2v82b8bdeGw8pipBQWmf53hIcqHGM
      4ZBF3CHw5Wrf1JIE+8TwOzdbal30zeChw88WfRfD7c/j1fIA8sxsujvf2d9j
      UxCUga8BVdVB9kH0Geexytyt0KvWQXfaEEcgZGUAAAAAAAA=

      ------=_Part_337_6452266.1040310218750-

Appendix B.  Legacy Interoperability (Non-Normative)

   This appendix records clarifications for interoperability with legacy
   AS2 implementations conforming to [RFC4130].  These provisions apply
   only when a modern AS2 implementation communicates with a partner
   that has not migrated to this specification.  In such cases, both
   parties are effectively operating under [RFC4130], not this document.

   These notes are provided to reduce ambiguity and ensure consistent
   behavior across implementations.  They do not alter the algorithm
   requirements specified in Section 7, nor do they extend the use of
   deprecated algorithms.

   Examples of legacy considerations include:

   o *Message Integrity Checks (MICs):* Implementations may continue to
   accept SHA-1 for MIC calculations when required by legacy partners.
   SHA-1 MUST NOT be generated by conformant modern implementations, but
   inbound SHA-1 values may be tolerated to maintain compatibility.

   o *Encryption Algorithms:* Implementations may accept inbound
   messages encrypted with 3DES from legacy partners.  However, 3DES
   MUST NOT be generated by conformant implementations.  AES (128-bit or
   stronger) remains the normative requirement in Section 7.2.

     Note: NIST withdrew the 3DES specification on 1 January 2024, and
     disallowed the two-key variant in 2017. Any residual use of 3DES is
     for backward compatibility only and MUST NOT be generated by
     conformant implementations.

   o *Multiple-Recipient Encryption:* RFC 4130 did not clearly specify
   expected behavior for multiple-recipient support.  Modern
   implementations SHOULD support recoverable encryption by including a
   copy of the content-encryption key (CEK) for each recipient, and
   SHOULD include one for the originator when feasible.  Legacy
   implementations may omit this; modern systems should tolerate it.

   o *Error Handling:* When encountering unsupported algorithms or
   malformed cryptographic structures in legacy exchanges,
   implementations SHOULD generate a clear error condition (e.g., an
   unsigned MDN reporting "unsupported-mic-algorithm").  Silent fallback
   to weaker algorithms is NOT RECOMMENDED.

   o *Profile Selection:* Implementations may provide administrators the
   ability to select profiles (e.g., "AS2-1.2 legacy mode" versus
   "AS2-2.0 modern mode") for specific trading partner agreements,
   ensuring predictable behavior without runtime handshakes.

   These clarifications are provided for reference and consistency
   across vendors.  They are non-normative and are not intended to
   redefine [RFC4130] or to weaken the algorithm requirements of this
   specification. see Section 1.2 for discussion of backward
   compatibility principles, and Section 7 for normative algorithm
   requirements.

Appendix C.  Change Log (Non-Normative)

   This appendix records the substantive changes made during the
   revision from the original RFC 4130 draft toward the current version
   of this document.

C.1.  General

   *  Removed all references to AS1/SMTP throughout the draft.

   *  Included descriptions and references for compressed content, which
      was previously supported since AS2 version 1.1.

   *  This draft explicitly allows negotiation of newer RFCs while
      retaining legacy support, where necessary.

   *  Updated formatting and cross-references so that all internal
      "Section X.Y" references are properly linked in HTML and XML
      output.

   *  Moved legacy interoperability clarifications to Appendix B to
      avoid confusion with normative text.

   *  Clarified that appendices are non-normative unless otherwise
      indicated.

C.2.  Changes affecting Section 1.2 - Backward Compatibility and
      Interoperability

   *  Expanded to explicitly state the dual-reference policy:

      -  Implementations MAY interoperate with S/MIME v3.1 (RFC
         3851/3852).

      -  Conformant implementations MUST also support S/MIME v4.0 (RFC
         8551).

   *  Added explicit pointer to Appendix B for legacy interoperability
      clarifications.

   *  Clarified that RFC 8551 forms the baseline for new
      implementations.

C.3.  Changes affecting Section 5.1 - AS2-Version Header

   *  Retained definitions for AS2-Version 1.0, 1.1, and included the
      previously supported version 1.2.

   *  Added *AS2-Version: 1.3*:

      -  Defines modernization requirements (SHA-256, AES baseline per
         RFC 8551).

      -  Aligns MDN behavior with RFC 8098.

      -  Requires support for multiple-recipient encryption
         (Section 7.2).

      -  States weak algorithms (SHA-1, MD5, 3DES, RC2) MUST NOT be
         generated by conformant 1.3 implementations.

      -  Points to Appendix B for legacy interoperability when
         communicating with 1.2 or earlier partners.

   *  Added note about future versioning: minor versions (1.x) remain
      backward compatible; major version (2.0+) would indicate non-
      backward-compatible revisions.

C.4.  Changes affecting Section 5.3.3 — Message-Id and Original-Message-
      Id

   *  Prohibit spaces and control characters in newly generated Message-
      Id values; recommend removal (not substitution) when constructing
      from other attributes.

   *  Clarify receiver behavior: implementations are not required to
      accept malformed Message-Id values; they SHOULD return an MDN with
      processed/error and a human-readable explanation (per [RFC8098]).

   *  Keep angle-bracket guidance; brackets are required on send and are
      not part of the identifier value.  Receivers SHOULD NOT reject
      solely for missing brackets.

   *  Update normative reference to [RFC5322].

C.5.  Changes affecting Sections 5.4 and 5.5 — Reliability and Restart

   *  Expanded Section 5.4 to clarify that HTTP 102 (Processing) MAY be
      used under HTTP/1.1 for progress indication but MUST NOT be used
      under HTTP/2 or 3.

   *  Changed previous requirement to close connections before retry to
      optional behavior; clarified that 102 is deprecated but still
      permitted for backward compatibility.

   *  Expanded Section 5.5 to reference the AS2 Reliability
      ([I-D.draft-duker-as2-reliability-16]) and AS2 Restart
      ([I-D.draft-harding-as2-restart-02]) drafts.

   *  Clarified that implementations SHOULD support configurable retry
      logic and MAY implement restart for large or interrupted
      transfers.

   *  Added explicit normative language about duplicate detection using
      Message-ID.

C.6.  Changes affecting Section 6 — Additional AS2-Specific HTTP Headers

   *  Added new AS2-Product header to identify the sending product and
      version.

   *  Defined header format as <product-name>:<major.minor[.patch]>.

   *  Required inclusion for AS2-Version 1.3 or 2.0 and later.

   *  Clarified that the header enables interoperability diagnostics and
      implementation-specific workarounds, not capability negotiation.

   *  Explicitly stated that arbitrary or misleading product names MUST
      NOT be used.

C.7.  Changes affecting Section 7 - Algorithm Requirements

   *  Introduced a new dedicated section consolidating algorithm
      requirements.

   *  *Hash Algorithms*:

      -  MUST support SHA-256.

      -  SHOULD support SHA-384 or stronger.

      -  SHA-1 and MD5 deprecated; MUST NOT be generated by conformant
         implementations.

   *  *Encryption Algorithms*:

      -  MUST support AES-128-CBC; SHOULD support AES-256-CBC.

      -  RECOMMENDED to support AES-GCM and AES-CCM modes.

      -  3DES and RC2 deprecated; MUST NOT be generated.

      -  SHOULD support multiple-recipient encryption (per RFC 8551
         §3.3).

   *  Added explicit cross-references to Appendix B for legacy
      interoperability.

C.8.  Changes affecting Section 8 - MDN Processing

   *  Updated to align MDN behavior with RFC 8098 (superseding RFC
      3798).

   *  Clarified semantics for signed-receipt-micalg:

      -  Allow multiple algorithms in header for backward compatibility.

      -  Conformance requires selecting one algorithm in Received-
         content-MIC.

      -  SHA-256 set as the default minimum; SHA-1 only permitted for
         legacy use.

   *  Relaxed constraints on the content of the Disposition-
      notification-to header.

   *  Definitions have been included for additional supported error
      dispositions.0

   *  Clarified required MDN fields:

      -  Final-Recipient — MUST always be present.

      -  Original-Message-ID — REQUIRED and must match the original
         message exactly.

      -  Message-ID in the MDN — optional.

      -  Disposition-Notification-To — MAY use any format (email, URL,
         hostname); receiving systems MUST ignore syntax issues per RFC
         4130.

   *  Updated asynchronous MDN handling to reflect practical
      implementation realities:

      -  HTTP 200-level responses SHOULD be sent immediately after
         receiving the last byte, before full decryption or validation,
         to minimize timeout risk.

      -  Persistent (keep-alive) connections MAY be used; closing is
         optional and implementation-dependent.

      -  Receipt of a 200-level response only acknowledges receipt, not
         successful processing.

   *  Emphasized that asynchronous MDNs are sent as independent HTTP
      messages per Section 7.3, and clarified that connection handling
      should not be mandated at the application layer.

   *  Added standardized disposition-modifier extensions to improve
      error reporting.

   *  New recommended modifiers:

      -  error: decompression-failed

      -  error/duplicate-filename

      -  error/illegal-filename

      -  error: insufficient-message-security

      -  error/invalid-message-id

      -  error/unknown-trading-relationship

   *  Clarified that implementations returning these modifiers MUST
      include a human-readable explanation in the MDN Explanation field.

C.9.  Changes affecting Section 9 — Public Key Certificate Handling

   *  Revised the opening paragraph to reference the optional *AS2 GET*
      method, in addition to manual partner onboarding.

   *  Expanded the section to clarify separate roles and lifecycle
      management for *TLS certificates* (transport security) and *AS2
      certificates* (message signing and encryption).

   *  Stated that TLS and AS2 certificates *SHOULD NOT* be reused or
      shared to prevent cross-impact if one certificate is compromised.

   *  Required a *minimum RSA key length of 2048 bits* (or equivalent
      elliptic-curve strength such as P-256).

   *  Clarified that:

      -  *TLS certificates* SHOULD be CA-signed in production; self-
         signed certificates MAY be used in test environments or by
         partner agreement, provided they include a *Subject Alternative
         Name (SAN)* extension with hostname and/or IP address.

      -  *AS2 certificates* MAY be CA-issued or self-signed per partner
         policy.

   *  Added guidance that *AS2 certificate lifetimes* need not mirror
      the short renewal cycles of TLS certificates; renewal policies
      SHOULD be independent.

   *  Recommended *CEM* for automated certificate exchange between
      partners to reduce manual errors and downtime.

   *  Introduced optional support for *AS2 GET* to retrieve partner
      certificates, provided retrieval is authenticated (for example,
      Basic Auth or mutual TLS) and integrity-protected.

   *  Added operational recommendations:

      -  Maintain separate TLS / AS2 certificates.

      -  Include SAN extensions in all self-signed certificates.

      -  Support configurable expiry-notification mechanisms.

      -  Avoid reusing TLS certificates for AS2 message security.

C.10.  Changes affecting Section 10 - Security Considerations

   *  Provided guidance for the usgae of HTTPS and the minimum and
      recommended usage of TLS versions.

   *  Expanded discussion of algorithm lifecycle:

      -  SHA-1 and MD5 deprecated; 3DES formally withdrawn by NIST
         (2024).

      -  Implementations MUST NOT generate deprecated algorithms.

      -  Migration guidance provided for interoperability.

   *  Added explicit references back to Section 7 (Algorithm
      Requirements) and Appendix B (Legacy Interoperability).

C.11.  Changes affecting Section 11 - IANA Considerations

   *  Clarified that IANA must update existing MDN registries to
      reference this specification (replacing RFC 4130).

   *  Added direct links to IANA registry pages for clarity.

C.12.  Appendices

   *  *Appendix A*: Updated Message Examples with newer algorithms.

   *  *Appendix B*: Legacy Interoperability (non-normative
      clarifications):

      -  Captures behavior when interoperating with RFC 4130 systems.

      -  Explicit note: 3DES withdrawn by NIST in 2024; MAY only be
         accepted for backward compatibility, MUST NOT be generated.

   *  *Appendix C*: This Change Log.

Author's Address

   Debra Petta
   Drummond Group, LLC
   Email: IETF-Activity@drummondgroup.com
